Ruthanna Emrys: Innsmouth Legacy

This is the litany of the peoples of Earth.  Before the first, there
was blackness, and there was fire.  The earth cooled and life arose,
struggling against the unremembering emptiness.

First were the five-winged eldermost of Earth, faces of the Yith.  In
the time of the elders, the archives came from the stars.  The Yith
raised up the Shoggoth to serve them in the archives, and the work of
that aeon was to restore and order the archives on Earth.

Second were the Shoggothim, who rebelled against their makers.  The
Yith fled forward, and the Earth belonged to the Shoggothim for an
aeon.

Third were the Ghaesh, who dwelt in warm seas, and fell into madness
when the sea reshaped itself.  Then came a time of great beasts, when
no true mind looked on the world.

Fourth were the Hy-lameae, faces of the Yith, who lived alongside
great beasts.  The work of that aeon was to travel the ages, and to
add the memory of Earth to the archives.

Fifth were the descendants of the great beasts, grown wise, who hid
their name.  They are called nameless ones, and lizard-men, and
crocodile people, and they built deep in the mud and the rock, and
left echoes for many ages after.

Sixth are humans, the wildest of races, who share the world in three
parts.  The people of the rock, the Kn'yan, build first and most
beautifully, but grow cruel and frightened and become the Mad Ones
Under the Earth.  The people of the air spread far and breed freely,
and build the foundation for those who will supplant them.  The people
of the water are born in shadow on land, but what they make beneath
the waves will live in glory till the dying sun burns away their last
shelter.

Seventh will be the Ck'chk'ck, born from the least infestation of the
houses of man, faces of the Yith.  The work of that aeon will be to
read the Earth's memories, to analyze and annotate, and to make poetry
of the Yith's own understanding.

Eighth will be the Sareeav, who will make great sculptures of ice and
fire.  The fires will grow cold, but the ice will last aeons after
their death throes.

Ninth will be the machines, sent by humans to explore other worlds and
grown numerous in exile.  They shall return to the Earth to seek their
creators, and, not finding them, shall make them anew.  They shall
have reason and purpose, but not minds, so the Yith shall not know
them.

Tenth will be an age when many races dwell upon the Earth, those
re-made and those come from afar, faces of the Yith and others alike.
The work of that aeon will be to make stories of great heroes and foul
deeds worthy of the archives.

Eleventh will be...

Twelfth will be the Avolorafuno, dwellers in cold and twilight, faces
of the Yith.  The work of that aeon will be to build and store,
preparing the way for the next aeon.  Then the minds of the Yith will
leave this world forever, and the bodies they desert will pass away.

Thirteenth will be the Evening People.  The Yith will walk openly
among them, raising them from their race's infancy with the best
knowledge of all peoples.  The work of that aeon will be copying the
archives, stone to stone, and building the ships that will carry the
archives, and the Evening, to distant stars.  After they leave, the
Earth will burn and the sun fade to ashes.

After the last race leaves, there is fire and unremembering emptiness.
Where the stories of Earth will survive, none have told us.
