Piaerre was quiet at dinner that evening, but neither his parents nor
his sister Queçenne noticed. Since the bookster had taken him on as an
apprentice, he had often been lost in his own thoughts. When he did
speak, he sounded, according to his father, "Like someone who's had his
brains stirred with a spoon."

That evening, though, his mind wasn't on verbs, or the legal rights of
Gifted animals, or any of the other insubstantial wonders that filled
his lessons. Instead, two thoughts chased each other around in his head:
whether he should tell the bosun that Jaromir actually was wearing a
homestone, and what the odds were that he'd live to see his next naming
day. Fraederiq had looked *very* angry...

Lost in thought, he barely noticed when his father set his knife and
drill aside and put the bamboo flute he'd been working on to his lips.
The gentle sound filled the house like a warm scent, or a promise that
the spring delayed by the mountain's journey north would soon be summer.
Suddenly yawning, Piaerre helped his mother Elaiene clear the table,
then trudged upstairs to bed.

Taking his little piece of dayglass from its place by the window, where
it had been soaking up the day's light, he pulled a slim cloth-bound
book from the shelf by his bed. *Acts and Questions of the Parledoux of
Avaunt* was stamped on the front, with *487* underneath in antique
Seyfertois numerals. Bosun Uyves had lent it to him the day after
receiving it from the captain in Forecastle. "Borrow the rest of them as
well, if you want," he had said, entirely unbothered by his own lack of
interest in the printed word. He knew Avaunt's laws well enough for
Starboard Town's needs, and if someone wanted to argue the details,
well, Forecastle was only a day away.

Piaerre settled himself on his bed and opened the book to the spot he
had marked the week before with a reddish-brown feather he had found in
the garden. Question 27: what should be done about the new tax the
Uwsians were charging on steel? (Pass it on to buyers.) Question 28:
what about the rabbits that plagued the mountain's beanfields? (More
traps.)

And then, Question 29: *Shall This Assembly Resolve That the Number of
Indwellers Permitted on the Mountain Outwith Berthing-Times Shall Not
Exceed Eight Hundreds?* He read it through carefully. It never mentioned
the Hett by name, but its authors left no doubt that the "indwellers"
they had in mind weren't people like Piaerre's grandfather. "Persons
most usually employed in menial trades, such as street sweepers,
nightsoil carters, peddlers, and scissor sharpeners." That was the
Hett---at least, the mountain-born Hett. They knew their place; they kept
their eyes down when the Avauntois spoke to them, and laughed when
someone made a joke at their expense. If it rankled, well, what of it?
It was no worse than the way the rest of Cherne treated their wandering
cousins.

But over the last few years, a growing number of those wanderers had
fetched up on Avaunt. Ten years ago, only a few hundred Hett had called
the flying mountain home. Now, there were a thousand. "Or more," a few
people muttered darkly. "Can't just be chance, and there can't be any
good in it."

Those mutterings had turned to arguments in Forecastle's taverns.
Finally, the captain had ordered the loudest hotheads to put the
question to the Parledoux. His chief clerk had been politely negative
after the reading, but its authors were not deterred. Fortified with a
few glasses of Enswer cider, they vowed to rewrite it, and bring it
forward again.

Until that afternoon, the debate had largely passed Piaerre by. As far
as he was concerned, the Hett consisted of the half-dozen families that
came to Starboard Town each fall to help with the charcoaling, and
tinkers like Vaszlav. The tinker's little stall, with its pins, springs,
and screws, had seemed half-magical when Piaerre was little. Later, when
he had mastered his letters well enough to read on his own, the books
that Vaszlav brought from Forecastle to rent out to Starboard Town's
inhabitants became Piaerre's salvation and refuge. They were less
important now, but he still felt that he owed the old man something. He
could only guess how many hours Vaszlav had spent badgering Forecastle's
booksellers to get them to entrust this book or that to a Hett...

Piaerre tossed and turned that night, playing out a thousand different
battles with Fraederiq in his mind. When his mother called him
downstairs for breakfast, he dragged himself out of bed, pulled on his
clothes, picked up his satchel, and mispronounced both of the Praczny
curses he knew when its twice-mended leather strap broke for the third
time.

"Well, you'll just have to ask your papaere to fix it again," Elaiene
said, stirring the beans bubbling away on the stove. "Oh, and see if he
wants to come for dinner tonight."

The early morning sun made the cobblestones gleam. Piaerre said hello to
people on his way down the street, and waved to Jaecque, who had thrown
open his bakery's shutters, but was too engrossed in the morning's
baking to wave back. One of his cats mewled at Piaerre, darting away
when he bent over to pet it. Another paused, its paw upraised, to watch
Piaerre pass by, then returned to its grooming.

Slip Street ran aground in a tangle of weeds and saplings sixty strides
further on. From there, a narrow path snaked through the corkscrew pine
forest between to the stairs that led to Piaerre's grandfather's house.
Steep shadows lay between the trees; here and there, tiny spiderwebs
glistened with dew, while overhead, a sickle-wing bat chittered
nervously.

The path ended at the edge of a near-cliff that fell away like a stone
waterfall. A man-tall bamboo crane waited there patiently, its rope
lying oiled and coiled in a plank box. As always, Piaerre took a firm
grip on one of the crane's legs and leaned out to look down, his pulse
thumping in his ears.

Lurid green creepers still covered the mountain's broad flanks below
him, though the riotous pink flowers that had bloomed on them after the
mountain's brief stay in Mau Ngapcha had fallen to pieces months ago.
The heavy plank steps half-hidden among them doubled back twice before
reaching Papaere Vurt's little cottage. Vurt had drilled holes for the
steps' spikes himself, just as he had built the little crane with his
own two hands, and fitted and nailed every board in the cottage's
verandah. It had taken him over a year, but the view made it all
worthwhile.

And what a view it was. The mountain itself ended only a hundred strides
beneath the cottage's floor. Beneath that lay empty air, a few birds,
and then, half a gallop below, the plains of eastern Darp. It was a long
way to fall...

Piaerre pulled himself back from the edge and made his way carefully
down the stairs, his satchel against his chest. He paused a moment on
the broad verandah that was his grandfather's pride and joy, then
thumped the weathered little drum hanging next to the cottage's
blue-and-orange door.

"Coming," Vurt shouted. The round mahogany peg on the end of his right
leg clunked on the floor inside. A moment later he pulled the door open.

"Morning," he said. "Wasn't expecting to see you today."

"My strap broke again." Piaerre held up his satchel.

"Damn thing. Really ought to get you a new one." His grandfather stepped
aside and waved him in.

The cottage only had two rooms. A narrow bed and a polished teak dresser
whose drawers hadn't been closed in years stood next to one wall in the
first. A silhouette portrait of Vurt's late wife hung over the bed; a
misshapen skull hung alone on the wall opposite it.

The second, larger, room served as kitchen, workshop, and (less
frequently than Piaerre's mother would have liked) bath. Dusty jars of
preserves looked down from their shelves at half-finished rabbit traps
with coiled bamboo springs and thorn teeth. An arm's length of rusty
chain, each link as big as Piaerre's hand, lay next to a cracked
hourglass whose sands had long since run out.

"Have you eaten?" Vurt asked.

"Yes, thanks," Piaerre said, his eyes watering slightly from the spices
sizzling in the battered black skillet on top of the stove.

"Good. Wouldn't be enough for the both of us."

As his grandfather gulled down his usual mix of scrambled eggs, bean
curds, dried chilis, and unripe tomatoes, Piaerre explain what had
happened the day before. Vurt frowned when he heard about the fine.
"I'd've taken the full two crowns," he said. "'Course, I'd've taken two
off your friend Fraederiq, too. Boy needs his hide striped."

"He's not my friend," Piaerre protested.

"Used to be. Niquolas, too. It's a shame they've both gone sour."

"They're not all bad," Piaerre said, with the instinctive solidarity of
youth against age. "Fraederiq does chores for Mamaere Mayeule
sometimes---and Niquolas minds Matthieu every Greensday afternoon."

"Mm hm, and gets paid for it. Now here, pass that over." Pushing aside
his skillet, he reached for his grandson's satchel.

Piaerre held it back. "Why would you have fined Jaromir at all? Those
stones aren't hurting anybody."

Vurt cleared his throat noisily. "It isn't about the stones, lad. It's
about the law. Start letting folks like this what's his name---"

"Jaromir."

"---Jaromir, start letting him think he can pick and choose which laws
he's going to obey, that'll just make 'em think there's hope for
changing things that aren't ever going to change. That Klaues fellow the
captain's so fond of has the right idea---don't try to change the rules,
just find a way to slide around them. Now, do you want me to look at
your bag or not?"

Piaerre took his books out of his satchel and passed it to his
grandfather. Vurt eyed the books sourly. "You know, it'd last longer if
you didn't load it up so much." He squinted at the stitching and clucked
his tongue. "Mm hm. It's not so bad. I can do it for you right now if
you want."

"Thanks, papaere."

"*Awshe*." He picked up his awl. "So, what happens next?"

Piaerre shrugged helplessly. "Fraederiq beats me to death with a stick?"

"Heh. Should have kept up your fencing lessons," his grandfather said
absently.

"It wasn't my idea to stop," Piaerre said defensively. When his
mother---Vurt's only daughter---had discovered that her father was teaching
Piaerre the basics of swordplay, she had put her foot down hard. Her son
was *not* going to be a rogue like his grandfather. He could learn bow
or spear for militia, like a good Avauntois, but there'd be no fencing,
and *definitely* no brawling.

Piaerre watched his grandfather work in silence, his mind on Jaromir's
homestone. Fraederiq's father Gaeston claimed that the Hett wore them as
a reminder of the fact that the mountain had once been theirs. "That's
why they ought to be banned," Gaeston had told Piaerre's father one
afternoon, not long after Question 29 had been put to the Parledoux. "If
even one of 'em thinks it's ever going to be theirs again, that's one
too many."

Piaerre couldn't remember what his father had said---something to calm
Gaeston down, most likely, or a joke to change the subject. But that
night, Piaerre's dozing dreams of Chaentelle doing laundry had been
interrupted by snatches of conversation from below. "I hear more of that
every time I go to Forecastle," Laeuc had said to Elaiene. "If the
captain doesn't do something about it, there'll be trouble when we
berth."

"Here. What do you think?" Vurt held up the satchel, breaking Piaerre's
gloomy reverie.

"It looks good. Thanks, papaere." Piaerre bit another sliver off his
much-abused thumbnail and wiped his hand on his pants. He took the
satchel and tugged on the strap. The new piece of leather felt stiff,
but would wear in quickly. "What do I owe you?"

"Gaaah." Papaere Vurt wrinkled his nose. "Clean the stove and we'll call
it a draw."

"All right." Piaerre stuck out his hand, grinning. His grandfather
pressed his palm against it with a businesslike nod. They both knew
Piaerre would have cleaned the stove anyway.

Vurt glanced at the rectangle of sunshine creeping across his battered
pine workbench. "You'd best be going."

"Yeah. Thanks again." Piaerre slipped his books back into the bag. There
were only six of them, but that was six more than most people in
Starboard Town read in a year.

He turned to go, then stopped himself. "Oh, I almost forgot---maere wants
to know, are you coming up for dinner tonight?"

Vurt shrugged. "Wasn't planning to. Plenty here I should use before it
goes off." Which was a lie, and they both knew it. "'Sides, I feel like
a gull, nipping off your plates."

Piaerre rolled his eyes. "You're not being a gull. And if you don't
come, maere'll spend the whole meal worrying about you, and then she'll
be down here tomorrow with a new pair of mittens and a basket full of
biscuits."

"Oh, *saad*, she hasn't gone and knit some more, has she?"

"Of course not. She baked them." He pretended to duck as his grandfather
growled and raised a fist. "But if you don't come, she'll probably make
you longjohns as well." He tried to leer. "You could always stop off at
Mamaere Mayeule's on the way back."

"Oh, could I now? Awful kind of you to give me permission."

Piaerre grinned and slung his satchel over his shoulder. "Anyway, I have
to go."

"All right." Vurt took his cane from the tool rack beside his workbench
and followed his grandson out onto the verandah. There, grandfather and
grandson paused a moment to admire the view.

Avaunt was still over the chaparral of eastern Darp, as it had been, and
would be, for weeks. Gray-green shrubs lay on the dry, red earth like
tufts of stained wool. Thin streams glistened between them at the bottom
of rocky, steep-sided gullies. A gallop away, a pair of giant stone
hands, weather but unbroken and six stories tall, reached toward the sky
as they had done since the time of the Uncertain Angels. No one knew
whether they were pleading, or waiting to catch a star that had yet to
fall; no one knew whether they were part of a buried giant, a side
effect of some spell wrought during the great war in which the Angels
had destroyed themselves, or merely some eccentric work of art. And
other than Piaerre, no one in Starboard Town much cared. The Angels had
fallen, the world carried on---if it wasn't disturbing the goats or the
beans, best to leave it be.

"See over there?" Piaerre said suddenly, pointing. "Horses."

"Good eyes," Vurt said, fishing his glasses out from under his shirt and
holding them up in front of his face. If there had been anyone else
there, he would have grunted and changed the topic, rather than
admitting that he could no longer see clearly at that distance. "You
think they're wild?"

Piaerre studied them for a moment. "Maybe," he said hesitantly. "I don't
know."

Vurt shook his head and pointed. "You're not looking. See back that way?
Next to the hands?" He waited until his grandson nodded. Two dismounted
riders lay in the shade with their heads on their saddles. "Probably
taking them to market. Coriandel, maybe, or Armaq." He tucked his
glasses back under his rough linen shirt. "You should get up to your
lessons."

"I suppose." Piaerre looked longingly at the world rolling by beneath
them. Four months ago, the land beneath the flying mountain had been
carpeted with dense green jungle. They had seen flocks of white-winged
birds take flight at dawn, and a herd of hippos stampede for safety when
a crocodile attacked. There had been villages, too, with tendrils of
smoke rising from the thatched roofs of their longhouses.

The jungle had given way to grassland as the mountain flew north, which
in turn had given way to the windblown grit of the Karaband Desert.
Piaerre and his grandfather had slung hammocks on the verandah then, and
slept under the stars. Piaerre's parents and sister joined them a few
times for dinner, and a few other townspeople came down as well to see
what there was to be seen, or keep Vurt up to date with the mountain's
gossip, or just to sit in silence and listen to the steady breeze of the
mountain's stately flight.

Most often, though, Piaerre and Vurt had the verandah to themselves. The
old man listened to his grandson describe what he had learned in his
lessons that day, telling him stories about life on the ground below in
return. They shared breaded dates that Piaerre bought from Mamaere
Mayeule on Redsday and Greensday mornings, and if one or the other
closed his eyes and breathed a little easier now and again, well, what
of it? No one fussed over Vurt, or asked him if he wanted yet another
cup of tea. No one bullied Piaerre, or made fun of all the words he
knew. They were both content, though only Vurt knew enough to know how
rare such contentment was.

A week ago, the flying mountain's shadow had crossed the River Wise,
which marked the halfway point of the mountain's journey from Mau
Ngapcha to Normous Berth. When they reached their northern destination,
the mountain's people would have two weeks to earn their livings. Silk,
mahogany, chocolate, nutmeg, mace, and cloves would come out of storage,
and be replaced by steel, wool, cider, and leather. And while Piaerre's
parents still claimed that they hadn't made up their minds, Vurt and
Piaerre both knew that Piaerre would leave the mountain then. The
hundreds of old books in the Captain's House, and the eclectic lessons
of a single eccentric bookster, were not enough. Piaerre was sixteen; if
he wanted to become a bookster himself, he had to leave the mountain and
find schooling elsewhere.

Vurt put his hand on his grandson's shoulder and shook him gently. "Well
then, off with you. Tell your mother I'll be there for dinner, if you
like."

"I will."

As Piaerre turned to go, his grandfather said, "Piaerre? You did the
right thing talking to the bosun."

Piaerre forced a smile. "Bet you Fraederiq doesn't think so."

His grandfather frowned. "Don't suppose he does. You watch out for him,
all right? He's trouble."

"I'll be careful," Piaerre promised. He forced a smile as Vurt squeezed
his shoulder, then started up the stairs.

* * *

Piaerre was breathing hard by the time he reached the path back to town.
His papaere had the best view on this side of the mountain, but you had
to work to enjoy it.

He fingered the patch on his satchel strap as he scanned the trees.
There was no sign of Fraederiq, but that didn't mean anything. Boys in
Starboard Town started hunting the rabbits that infested the mountain as
soon as they were old enough to hold a sling, and the trick to getting
close enough to use one was knowing how to hide...

Piaerre wiped his hands on his heavy cotton trousers and set off briskly
through the braided pines. "*Gangre*," he muttered, trying to distract
himself. "To walk. *Forløpre*. To run..." His teacher, Razi, had started
teaching him Praczny a week before. It was harder than Seyfertois, which
was practically the same as what was spoken on the mountain, or Enswer,
which was the most common language in Normous Berth, but the bookster
said the effort would be good exercise for his mind. "*Klatre*, to
climb. *Kjøpre*, to buy. *Selgre*, to sell..."

* * *

He hurried back downstairs. "They're still there," he whispered
loudly. "Lots of them, all over."

Busy laying his tools on the table, Thomas said, "Good."

"What do you mean 'good'?" the bosun demanded.

Thomas paused long enough to sigh. "Because as long as we can see
them, we know where they are. Now..." He studied the ball of red
twine, the two old silver coins, the bronze-and-green feather, and the
squishy thing in a little blue glass bottle that lay on the table in
front of him, then beckoned Iseulle over. "Do you know how to
whistle?"

She nodded and pursed her lips. "Ut!" Thomas raised a finger. "Not
yet." He busied himself with his odds and ends, as oblivious to the
bosun's scowl as he was to the frowning curiosity on Papaere Vurt's
face, and the worry on Laeuc and Mayeule's.

"There." He held up a complicated twist of twine. The coins hung in
the middle, with the squishy thing from the bottle suspended on a hook
below. He passed it to Iseulle. "Now whistle."

She pursed her lips again and blew. The thin sound wavered and
died. Puzzled, she put her lips together again. Piaerre heard a faint
rush of air as she blew.

"Excellent." Thomas took the little web of twine from her and passed
it to Laeuc. "That's for the fire, if you please. Now..." He handed
Iseulle the feather.

Piaerre gasped. A short, narrow-faced woman in a Hett uniform stood
where Iseulle had been. "What?" she asked.

"Ut, ut, ut, no, don't let go of the feather," Thomas chided, grasping
her hand. "This will only work the one time. Now, out the back would
be best, I think-fewer questions that way."

"Where exactly are you taking her?" Papaere Vurt asked.

"Anyalcze-it's only a few hours away, and Ensworth keeps an embassy
there. They'll keep her safe while the world decides what to do about
all this."

"And then what?"

Thomas shrugged. "Anything more than that is up to His Majesty, Lady
Marget, and Fate."

"Hey." Piaerre touched Iseulle's arm. Despite the spell Thomas had
cast, it felt as bony as ever. "I'm sorry about your father."

She nodded miserably, her lip quivering as she fought back tears.

"Come along," Thomas urged. "The tide waits not for death or dragons,
et cetera."

"Wait!" Piaerre bounded upstairs, only to come clattering back down a
moment later.

"Here," he said, handing a small book bound in faded red leather to
Iseulle. "Something to read on your trip. Razi gave it to me."

Iseulle opened it. "Unprofitable Speculations," she read aloud. "By
His Balance, Eimin di Cuayaçedil."

Thomas rolled his eyes. "Oh, you can't be serious..."

Iseulle hugged the book. "Thanks," she whispered.

Piaerre shrugged. "Just-be careful, all right? No scratches or folded
corners or anything." He leaned forward and kissed her clumsily on the
cheek.

A minute later, both of the lanterns in the house had been
covered. Laeuc eased the back door open. A round-faced Avauntois in
work clothes and a helmeted Hett soldier stepped out into the
vegetable garden.

"Good luck," Laeuc whispered. Looking over his father's shoulder,
Piaerre thought Iseulle waved, but then the door was closed, and she
was gone.

No one had much to say after that. Once again, Mayeule and Vurt took
Piaerre's room. Uyves turned down Queçenne's, taking Iseulle's place
on the floor downstairs instead. He was asleep and snoring almost as
soon as his boots were off.

Piaerre lay a stride away from him, hands folded behind his head,
staring at the ceiling in the dark and thinking about what he should
have said to Iseulle. No scratches or folded corners-Razi would have
thought of something better. Even the bosun would have. Something
about her father, something about Avaunt, anything but "no scratches
or folded corners". Why did he always think of these things when it
was too late? Why didn't he-

For a moment, he saw Fraederiq's face, saw his outstretched hand, saw
him fall. He screwed up his eyes and pushed the thought away. No. He
wasn't going to think about Fraederiq tonight. He wasn't going to
punish himself for what he hadn't said to Iseulle. Maybe there was
something more he could have done, but giving her the book and kissing
her goodbye was good enough.

He wondered whether they had reached the boat yet, whether she would
be as awestruck by the sight of the flying mountain as he had
been. What would Anyalcze be like? Would they take care of her? Or
would she wind up on the street, using the skills Razi had taught her
to stay hidden from the Hett while she raised an army to take back the
mountain. He could almost see her older self, lean instead of bony,
with a dramatic scar on her face or maybe a white streak through her
hair, wearing real armor instead of an illusion, her ragtag band of
heroes behind her...

* * *

"Where are they all?" The Avauntois whispered the question to one
another the next morning as they hoed their fields, stacked firewood,
and hung laundry to dry in the crisp, cold wind. They were heading
west now, back through the mountains to the great plains of Darp, with
only a handful of Hett watching over them. Piaerre had seen fewer than
a dozen that whole morning.

"If we're going to do it..." Gaeston murmured.

"Sh." Laeuc smiled insincerely at a bored Hett who wasn't even looking
their way. "For all you know, they'll be back for lunch." Gaeston spat
on the ground and stalked away.

Three strides behind his father, Piaerre was too worried about where
Iseulle was-and Razi, too-to pay the brief exchange much
attention. Waking at dawn, he had thought for a moment that the
bookster was waiting for him downstairs. Piaerre could see him sitting
there with his elbows on the table, blowing on a cup of strong
chocolate to cool it. But the dream dew evaporated as he pulled on his
trousers. It was his grandfather who sat that way, not Razi. The
bookster was gone, and so was Iseulle.

And so, it turned out, were the Hett. The woman who had spied on them
the year before was in command now. "Work with the others today," she
ordered Piaerre.

"Yes, sra." A wisp of russet-brown hair had escaped from her under her
helmet, and was dancing in the wind like a kite's tail. Piaerre caught
himself wondering how old she was. "Am I not going to be translating
any more?"

"That will be for the lieutenant to decide. But he did say that you're
to take time this afternoon for your studies. I presume you know what
he meant?"

"Yes, sra." Piaerre hesitated. "May I ask, sra, when he'll be back?"

"Soon." She sounded very certain of that.

Piaerre tamped another squash seed into the furrow at his feet and
glanced to his right. Armaend and Donaien were both watching
him. Armaend nodded approvingly; Donaien coughed theatrically, then
pressed his fist against his chest in the age-old sign for "good
work".

Piaerre nodded back weakly. Mamaere Mayeule had "bumped into" everyone
she could that morning, following her loud apology with a whispered
summary of the previous night's news. The captain was dead, but that
scruffy stray Piaerre had brought home? She was his daughter by his
first wife (by his Avauntois wife, when it was Elaiene doing the
whispering). She hadn't gone mad or been bundled off to board with the
King of Ensworth after all-she'd been right here on the mountain all
along! The magician had promised to take her to safety, so there was
hope yet.

Three furrows later, it was time for lunch. People glanced at the Hett
standing guard by the upper wall before sitting together, and kept
their voices hushed. Would the people who had fled the mountain while
it was on the ground at Tinhead rally to the new captain? Or maybe
they hadn't fled after all-maybe that had been part of some secret
plan. Maybe the old captain had been a wily one after all.

As he peeled his hardboiled egg, Piaerre felt like he was listening to
a Praczny fairy tale. He felt like jumping up and saying, "You're just
making this all up! You don't know anything! And if you think Thomas
is on our side, you don't know him either!" Instead, he just dipped
his egg in the little pot of flaked chili his father had brought,
squished it between two slices of the day-before-yesterday's bread,
and bit down hard.

"I'm supposed to go up to the Captain's House," he told his father
when lunch was done.

"Good."  Laeuc tousled his son's hair with a forced smile. "Don't
worry about all this-we'll find some way to get you to Ensworth. Can't
leave your belle there all on her own, can we?"

"She's not my belle," Piaerre mumbled, but his father was already back
at his hoeing.

When he reached the Captain's House, Piaerre thumped the door drum
self-consciously. No one answered. Pulling off his boots, he opened
the door a crack and called, "Hello?" The air inside was completely
still. He took the brick of dayglass from the garden and entered.

Piaerre had half-expected chaos, but the inside was as tidy as
ever. The Hett had left nothing of theirs in the library, although the
books he and Razi had been cataloguing had all been pushed to one
side. He put the dayglass in the lantern, set the other piece on the
step by the door so he wouldn't forget it, grabbed a book at random,
and nearly jumped out of his trousers as something rapped on the
window behind him.

Tap tap tap. Pause. Tap tap tap. Pause. Piaerre heard feathers
rustle. "Boy?" came a quiet squawk. "You in there?"

Untangling himself from his chair, Piaerre rushed to the window and
opened the shutter. Jack the Parrot hopped inside. "Leave it!" the
parrot ordered, as Piaerre pushed the shutter closed behind him. "In
case I have to get out of here in a hurry."

"Are you all right?" Piaerre asked anxiously.

"Of course I'm all right." Jack scratched the side of his head with a
claw. "It'll take more than a couple of crossbows to bring old Jack
down. Now, where's that skinny little friend of yours?"

Piaerre quickly explained what had happened. The parrot's crest
feathers wilted at the news that the old captain was
dead. "Forecastle's bosun, too," he squawked sadly. "They finally took
him to Nuu Ciy, but there was nothing she could do. His son went a
little bull-headed, now he's locked up in the same cell his father was
in."

"What about Portside? Or Aft Landing?"

"Dunno. That's where I was headed when I saw them." The parrot shook
himself. "The Hett, I mean. That's why I came. They're all up on the
Shoulder, masses of them, clearing brush and cutting down
trees. Biggest wasters I ever saw-they're just throwing everything
over the side."

In his mind, Piaerre saw a steady stream of trees crashing down on the
land below like a wooden waterfall. "What about the statues? Are they
going over the side as well?"

The parrot shook his head. "That's the thing. It looks like they're
fixing them all up. They're bringing all kinds of bits and pieces up
out of the tunnels to do it."

"What do you mean, bits and pieces?"

"I don't know!" The parrot hopped up and down in
frustration. "Machines! And big pieces of dayglass, all different
colors. They're building something, that's all I know."

For one brief moment, Piaerre was tempted to sit back down with his
book. One more mystery was one mystery too many. Instead, he closed
the hundred-year-old inventory of common Bantangui confidence games
and carried it over to the shelf. "I suppose we ought to tell
someone," he sighed.

It only took Piaerre a few minutes to walk back up to the field. It
took another hour for word to spread from mouth to mouth, through one
seemingly-casual conversation after another. It was like throwing a
pond in a pool, he thought. Or like the time he and Papaere Vurt had
seen a lone lion approach a herd of bison. Some fled; some bunched
together; and others, the bulls, instinctively moved toward the
threat.

Gaeston was clearly one of Starboard Town's bulls. He didn't mutter a
few words out of the corner of his mouth as he sauntered past on his
way to the seed trough, or make a show of calling Piaerre over to yank
out a particularly tough weed. Instead, he put his hoe on his shoulder
as if it were a spear, and practically marched across the field.

"What's this about the Tinheads clearing land for a village of their
own up on the Shoulder?" he said to Laeuc brusquely, as if Piaerre
wasn't there.

"Oh, saints," Laeuc sighed. "Here, help me with this row. No, come on,
put your back into it, they're watching." As they cut the furrow even
deeper, Laeuc explained what Jack had actually said. Gaeston's
permanent scowl darkened with every word.

"Whatever it is, we have to stop them." The anger that had always
salted his words had crystallized into something strong and
pure. "Marq will help, and Jaecque. Don't know about Armaend and
Donaien." He glanced at Laeuc. "Or you, these days. Which way are you
going to jump?"

"I...shouldn't you ask the bosun about this?" Laeuc said wearily.

Gaeston spat. "Sure I'll ask him. I'll ask him if he wants to come
along."

Here ends the first part of The Fall of the Flying Mountain.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

The climax takes place on the Shoulder (the former peak of the
mountain). Hidden among the trees (and clearly predating them) are
stone benches and tables, statues of impossible creatures, and odder
things, like a three-story Mobius strip carved from a single block of
granite. The Avauntois generally leave it alone, as legend has it that
anyone who vandalizes the statues inevitably meets a horrible end.

* The next morning, many of the Hett are gone (including
  Jaromir). Piaerre asks what's happening; the woman who is now in
  command (the one who he remembers spying) tells him brusquely that
  they were needed elsewhere to clear land. This starts a swirl of
  rumors among the Avauntois: are the Hett planning to build their own
  villages, rather than force the Avauntois out? How will the mountain
  sustain them? (The last only works if I've already had people
  discuss the fact that the mountain is slowly running out of
  topsoil---I need this to foreshadow key elements of the sequel.)

* Jack the Parrot discovers that the Hett are pulling down trees on
  the Shoulder. He has overheard them talking: whatever they're
  planning, they're going to do that night. Gaeston resolves to do
  something, with or without anyone's help. Laeuc objects that he
  should ask the bosun; Gaeston replies, "Sure I'll ask him. I'll ask
  him if he wants to come along or not." How to get their gear?
  They'll take their stuff to Papaere Vurt for repair; he'll meet them
  on the trail to hand it over, near the tunnel where he stashes his
  contraband.

* They sneak out of town and meet Vurt. Thomas arrives (having been
  watching from the clouds since dropping Iseulle off---anxious
  questions from Piaerre are rebuffed by Gaeston, who says it's no
  time for mooning after a girl). Despite Thomas's precautions, the
  Hett have seen the boat come in. They attack: the bosun is killed,
  the traps Papaere Vurt has set around the tunnel mouth kill a couple
  of Hett, the Avauntois escape into the night aboard Thomas's flying
  boat.

* Thomas uses the fireflies to find Razi. Piaerre's quick action saves
  the bookster (as at present). Furious, Thomas drops them on the
  mountain and flies away in a huff.

* Razi works a small spell to mislead the Hett: puts a bit of flesh
  from each of the Avauntois into a bag, ties it to Jack's leg, tells
  him not to fly too fast. Razi then leads them into the tunnels,
  using a magic key stolen during his escape from the Hett. "La, they
  know how much you hate being underground," he explains.

* Razi's quicksilver sword acts as a compass to guide them to the
  casket while it is still in transit. There are too many Hett to
  attack, but Gaeston does anyway. Donaien and Armaend join
  in. Piaerre sees Armaend strike at the Hett magician holding the
  casket. flames shoot out from Armaend's grip on his spear; he drops
  it, and is killed. Razi throws another vial of darkness, and
  Donaien's suicidal charge is obscured.

* Piaerre uses a boat hook as a club with his unfeeling hand to strike
  the magician down. In some ways, this is the climax of the story:
  it's the first violence Piaerre has committed, and marks the point
  at which he stops reading and thinking, and starts doing.

* Piaerre doesn't get very far with the casket: he is trapped by
  moving walls and revived bonescuttles. (Turns out they are servants
  of the mountain: the one that Vurt killed years ago woke
  accidentally.)

* The remaining quarter (Piaerre, Razi, Laeuc, and Gaeston) are taken
  to the field on the mountain's shoulder. Strange machinery, eldritch
  magic, etc. Razi is thrown off the mountain; the Angel is
  reawakened; Laeuc, Gaeston, and Piaerre are teleported back to
  Starboard Town, and moments later, the mountain begins to turn over.

 

* Piaerre's growth: he's afraid of fighting Fraederiq, then he doesn't
  want to, then he accepts that he might have to, or something like
  that (parallel the growth of Mae in Air).

* Must introduce the Stone Menagerie on the Shoulder (at least twice)
  before the climax.

* Discuss the fact that the Hett are slowly running out of topsoil.

* Thomas must knock on the door of every room he enters.

* Explain naming days: the person is given back their name on the
  anniversary of their birth each year; the ceremony takes place next
  ot the tree planted when they're born.

* Use the farewell, "Shalma'a," several more times in the story.

* Dogs are extinct in modern times (after a magical plague two
  centuries ago). This is why people say things like, "You look like
  you've seen a dog!" Not relevant to this story, so take it out:
  replace with things like, "You look like you were just kissed by a
  ghost!"

* At the same time, add more (dumb) beasts: pre-modern towns and
  villages were full of domestic animals.

* Mention the door soldiers (carvings that stand guard beside shop
  doors in Forecastle and elsewhere).

* When they first see Tinhead, there's a pyramid in the center of each
  square. Klaues is the one who says, "They could be otthonkos." Word
  spreads, and some of the Hett in Forecastle are attacked. (Reveals
  that Klaues does know about his own people's legends.)

* "Miraculously, people did." Seems awfully convenient.

* What happens to the Bantangui fan book? Is it dropped in a crate, or
  re-folded and set aside?

* Cut the description of Bantangui calligraphy: not relevant, impedes
  flow.

* "Whether the captain's wife had detected anything strange in
  Starboard Town." Clumsy foreshadowing.

* Every one of the books mentioned the mountain, but only a few said
  anything more than, "It's big, it flies back and forth, and its
  people have no sense of humor." "Do people really think that about
  us?" Piaerre asked the fourth time he read it. "Oh, la," Razi said
  diplomatically, "They don't know you as well as I do."

* The main square in the Forecastle is called Mapmarket Square. The
  tiles are laid out as a map of Avaunt's progress over Cherne; the
  mountain's path is picked out in coins. Every evening, the chief
  bosun moves a peg showing the mountain's progress.

* Have Vurt grumble that the skull of the first bonescuttle he killed
  was bigger.

* Has Piaerre ever seen a forest fire burning from on high?

* Titles and honorifics: the Avauntois use sieur and daeme for men and
  women. Uw and daw (uncle and aunt) are affectionate honorifics (like
  "boss") borrowed from Bantangui.

* A banner of snow blown off Avaunt's peak.

* Cutting and drying moss for use in the stinky house.

* Laeuc: "Oh, the Karabandi don't sacrifice chickens. They just scold
  them severely."

* A painting showing a boxer throwing the same punch forever.

* Razi: "We back into the future (must do, because we can see the past
  as we go)."

* A lammergeier is a bearded vulture that eats bones.

* A "saint" is a great scholar, inventor, or engineer. Saint
  Bearnard's Bridge, Saint Ehrm's balm, etc.

* They should swear by the death of all dogs, and by all the clocks
  that ever ticked.

* Quecenne talking about Vurt and Mayeule: old people get cute as they
  shrivel up.

* Spitting seeds over the balcony, watching the cat run up to each one
  in turn to sniff it.

* Vurt: "He's as dumb as a tiger." Piaerre: "But tigers aren't---oh."

* Steps of the Hardeck worn smooth by a waterfall of feet.

* Piaerre feels guilty about outgrowing his parents (particularly his
  father) intellectually, but doesn't want to stop it happening.

* "Malefit" is the opposite of "benefit".

* Avaunt needs more geography: ought to be at least one stone bridge
  across a ravine, and places where pulleys have been anchored to the
  rock to help Starboard Towners move loads from the Hardeck.

* A pattern on silk called "peacock's tears".

* The problem with books is that they can't change their minds.

* The hurt you get in the back of your throat when you're trying to
  stop yourself from crying.

* Feeding dyed grain to chickens to make them lay colored eggs (a
  story Laeuc told Piaerre when his son was young; Piaerre still has
  the egg).

* "That's like asking which side of a coin is the 'real' one." (Razi
  talking about who's right and who's wrong.)

* Some houses in the Forecastle have a "door soldier" (a large doll)
  by the front door: Enswer tradition.

* Jack the Parrot threatening to cake on someone's head. (Use "cake"
  more frequently, and have Piaerre get in trouble for using it.)

* "He could already feel Fraederiq's hands around his throat..." Feels
  "unearned": need to foreshadow Fraederiq as a bully before this.

* "Two thoughts chased each other..." Get inside Piaerre's head a
  little more here: have him remember some of Fraederiq's past mocking
  and bullying, so that readers can understand his indecision.

* "He could only guess how many hours Vaszlav had spent badgering..."
  Important character development point, but feels rushed.

* "A narrow bed and a polished teak dresser..." Move this detail up,
  so that it's better integrated.

* "...wondering in its little mind" Shift the POV.

* "Vurt was on his verandah, cursing in a flat monotone..." Seems to
  shift the POV to Vurt (needs to be Piaerre). Subsequent conversation
  slows the pace down.

* "weeping compass" only works if we already know that "weeping" is a
  curse.

* "A moment later, Vurt heard..." Another POV shift.

* "Piaerre stared at the map. The Brumosos curved..." Get inside
  Piaerre's head here: does he think that Fraederiq will never see
  this again? Or is that too maudlin?

* Mention somewhere that the mountain affects the weather around it
  (but less than the Avauntois think).

* "It didn't seem right, practicing verbs...but he couldn't think of
  anything else to do." Again, too passive: makes Piaerre an
  anti-hero.

* "Today you will finish with those deeds, yes?" Use "ledgers", and
  make it clear that these are things Piaerre was assigned earlier.

* "La, but enough of books for one evening." Have Piaerre be
  frustrated by Razi closing the topic, to express the reader's
  frustration at being teased.

* "...only for gallops for Jack the parrot..." Sounds strange, since
  parrots don't gallop.

* "By my eyes, a dozen rabbits..." Need a better segue into this, so
  that it's clear the omniscient/reflective bit is over.

* "People falling from a great height..." Too obvious.

* "I do," Piaerre blurted. Piaerre is betraying Razi in a small way by
  spilling the beans here. It needs to be more dramatic: is Piaerre
  doing it because solidarity with his fellow Avauntois takes
  precedence over his relationship with his teacher? The scene shift
  at the end (Thomas's arrival) gets Piaerre and the reader out of
  dealing with the consequences---maybe better to stick with them a
  little longer?

* Papere Vurt snorted. "Looks a lot safer than what I rode up on." He
  needs to make a comment that makes it clear he understands the game
  Thomas is playing, but is willing to go along for his grandson's
  sake (or because he doesn't quite trust Razi?).

* "Razi and Thomas were already on board." They're very flat here:
  need the scene to crackle with tension between them to make it clear
  that while they are very reluctant allies, they will put their
  differences aside and actually work together.

* "The tunnels!" Piaerre exclaimed, pointing at the image in the
  window. This is too early: he already figures out the tunnels in a
  later scene.

* "Was it---who dropped it off?" Piaerre needs to be a little more
  shocked by the (presumed) theft at this point. Later, he briefly
  entertains the notion of keeping it (since he didn't steal it
  himself), but even as he thinks it, he knows he's just playing with
  the idea.

* "First, lie my Razi on his back." Why can she see him now, when she
  couldn't see him when Piaerre spoke to her the first time?

* "...and grabbed the window ledge." He needs to be clumsy here: he's
  still adjusting to his numb hand. Need to comment on it a few more
  times later, and then have him do something when he gets back to
  Starboard Town without even realizing (at first) that he's
  compensating for the numbness.

* "But what about the rest of our things?" Piaerre's first question
  ought to be about Starboard Town and his family.

* "It took them half an hour..." Piaerre should be noticing how clumsy
  his hand is during this half hour.

* "A piece of cake?" Doesn't work if "cake" is an obscenity.

* "...he couldn't even hate himself properly for having frozen again."
  Scene is too sparse to have any real emotional impact. It should
  have more adrenalin; he should blame his numb hand (and immediately
  hate himself for the lie). This is also where we first find out that
  he thinks at some level that helping Razi ought to have squared what
  happened with Fraederiq.

* "The bookster spread his his hands. 'La, nothing that hasn't
  already, I think.'" Razi is nonchalant about the Hett invasion, but
  Piaerre wouldn't be. Would Iseulle?

* Vurt's ladder: needs to have been reassembled and used (by the
  fleeing families) before Piaerre et al return to Starboard Town.

* "Idjen cakhuisa." The bosun, Jaromir, and Piaerre are together, just
  as they were at the beginning of the story: should use this echo
  somehow.

* "I'll be a haunt before you'll be his anything." Make it clear here
  that what Elaiene's upset about is the impropriety: appearances
  instinctively take precedence in her mind over anything else.

* "How many bushels of squash did we grow each year?" Piaerre has to
  say that he lied (though he doesn't know how much good it will do,
  given how much they obviously already know). Can't afford for him to
  be seen as a collaborator.

* When Gaeston calls Piaerre a leech, Piaerre has to feel the
  injustice of it---remember, he lied to the Hett.

* Piaerre's conversation with Jaromir about the library (which Jaromir
  calls the birbetke): the story has suddenly stepped back from
  Piaerre's thoughts. Need to keep it close: need to know what Piaerre
  is feeling as Jaromir tries to be friendly.

* "They got Iseulle to bed eventually." Even in shock, she wouldn't be
  this passive.

 

(B) Original ending

"Iseulle... Iseulle, look at me." Piaerre touched her shoulder. "How
do you know? How can you be sure?"

"Because he's my father," she wailed. "And now he's-he's-gone!" Her
voice broke completely as her sobs shook her little body.

Piaerre looked at her, stunned. Her father? But-

Thomas pushed him gently out of the way. "Iseulle-is that your real
name? Iseulle?" She nodded, her face still buried against Mamaere
Mayeule's chest.

"Did you feel him pass?" the magician asked. She nodded again. "What
about your mother?"

"Her mother died five years ago," Uyves said quietly. "Nuu Ciy is her
step-mother. There's no blood there."

"I see," the magician mused. "My, my..." He glanced over his shoulder
at the Avauntois sitting and standing behind him. "This does make
things more interesting, doesn't it?"

They got Iseulle to bed eventually. Piaerre wanted to ask her a
hundred questions, but Mamaere Mayeule snapped, "It can wait 'til
morning. All of you, just leave it 'til the morning."

Back at the table, the bosun glowered at Thomas once more. "So...you
want their magic stone, eh? Any idea how to get it?"

Thomas nodded. "From what I've overheard, there's to be some sort of
ceremony at the mountain's peak to mark the real start of the Great
Work. Only a few of them will be there, so..." He spread his hands.

"So all we have to do is sneak up on them, dazzle 'em with our fancy
dancing, and snatch the stone?" Uyves snorted. "You're mad."

Thomas's eyes narrowed. "Never say that to me again. Do you
understand?"

The bosun laughed bitterly. "Or what? You'll turn me into a gerbil?"

"Let him speak," Papaere Vurt said sharply.

"Why? Hells, we don't even know where this ceremony's supposed to
happen. And how are we going to get there? It's three days to the
peak."

"Actually, I was going to offer you a ride," Thomas said, his usual
supercilious expression back in place. "As for the ceremony, I can
give you a guide of sorts. But you'll have to do the rest." He raised
his eyebrows. "Or if you'd rather, you could go back to your fields,
and plant a few more squash. I found it very restful, myself. After a
year or two, you might even forget that your homes are no longer your
own."

The room fell quiet except for the soft crackle and pop of the pine
log in the stove. Piaerre looked at the faces around the table. He
wished Razi was there. He'd know what to do. He wondered where the
bookster was-at the Sign of the Three Rabbits, eating dinner? Or in a
cell beneath the Hardeck? Or had the Hett killed him too?

"All right," Uyves said sourly. "What's your plan?"

"I can take half a dozen, no more," Thomas said crisply. "If those
spears of yours are all you know how to use, you might as well bring
them. And your bows, and lanterns, and climbing gear. You may have to
go the last few hundred strides through the tunnels," he explained,
raising a hand to forestall whatever Uyves was about to say. "They run
at odd angles, so-"

Without warning, the room shook. Dishes rattled, and lantern shadows
rippled across the wall. Mamaere Mayeule grabbed Vurt's hand and
squeezed it as Iseulle grabbed hers. Piaerre and his grandfather
looked at each other in shock. The mountain was taking flight.

Thomas stood, scooping up his seashell and dropped into a pocket. "Too
soon, and in the wrong order," he said crisply. "The future, I
mean. It always arrives too soon, and in the wrong order. We have to
go now. No, listen to me. Now, not tomorrow, not in an hour, now. Or
there may not be a tomorrow."

"But the curfew-" Laeuc began.

"Hang the curfew!" Thomas said sharply. "If they do whatever they're
intending to, you may not have a tomorrow."

The bosun stood. "All right. Laeuc, are you with me?"

Laeuc glanced at his wife, then stood in turn. "Of course," he said
firmly. "You can count on me."

"Good. We'll want Donaien and Armaend."

"And Gaeston," Laeuc said. "I know what he's been like, but he's as
tough as they come."

"And me," Piaerre said, standing as well.

"No." The bosun waved him away without even looking. "What about
Leroiy? He's steady enough."

"But-"

"I said no. And not you either, old man," Uyves added as Vurt opened
his mouth. "Not with that foot of yours."

"Fair enough," Vurt said. "We'll fetch Donaien and Armaend for
you. Faster everyone's down to the boat, less chance there is of being
spotted. Assuming it's still there, of course."

"Oh, she'll be there," Thomas assured him. "Unlike your mountain,
she's not one to go wandering."

* * *

They slipped out the back door a few moments later: Uyves, Thomas, and
Laeuc in front, Piaerre and his grandfather behind them. "We'll get
Gaeston," Uyves whispered. "You two get Donaien and Armaend."

"Wait!" Piaerre whispered back. Two soldiers stood at the top of Slip
Street next to a lantern on a stake, just as they had the night
before. Another lantern shone unguarded at the bottom of the street, a
dozen houses away, and a third in front of Mamaere Mayeule's. Voices
and laughter from inside the tavern, and the sound of an
inexpertly-played flute, gave evidence that the Hett were making
themselves at home.

"What?" the bosun whispered back.

Piaerre shook his head. "Just wait." A moment later, he heard the
creak of leather, and the scuff of a boot.

Piaerre put his mouth to the bosun's ear. "The soldiers with the
lanterns are just a decoy," he whispered. "There's more by the
smokehouse. You'll have to go around."

Uyves nodded, exchanging a look with Laeuc. This wasn't the Piaerre
they had known since childhood.

The night was cold and clear, the moon just a thin silver sliver in
the sky. Stars twinkled around it, as indifferent and aloof as ice
crystals. They were flying north-further than ever from the mountain's
age-old course, and from everything the Avauntois had ever known.

Piaerre and his grandfather crept from one hiding place to another,
huddling side by side where the shadows were deepest. Once they were
only ten strides from a soldier relieving himself in Marq's wilted
flower garden, but he didn't hear their hearts pounding behind the
woodpile.

Donaien and Armaend's house nestled in a bend in the road like a baby
in the crook of its mother's arm. Vurt squatted down awkwardly, using
his cane to steady himself. Piaerre stepped onto his shoulders,
hand-walking up the wall as his grandfather stood.

He rapped his knuckles softly on the upstairs bedroom's
shutters. "Psst," he hissed through the slats. "Donaien! Armaend! Wake
up!"

"Unh? Whazz?" someone grunted.

"Wake up," he repeated. "It's me, Piaerre!"

Someone threw back a quilt. Piaerre ducked his head sharply as the
shutters swung open.

Donaien blinked at him. "Piaerre-what are you doing? The tinheads
will-"

"Get dressed," Piaerre hissed urgently. "And get your climbing
harness, and your spear. Now! The bosun's waiting for you. Both of
you." He grabbed at the windowsill to steady himself as his
grandfather shifted beneath him. "We have to save the mountain."

It took less than a minute for the two men to pull on some clothes,
collect their gear, and scramble out the window, but it felt like an
age to Piaerre as he shivered next to his grandfather. There was
nothing to hide behind in Donaien and Armaend's back yard-any soldier
who stuck his head around the corner would see them.

Donaien dropped to the ground. Armaend landed beside him a moment
later, the harness in his hand jingling slightly.

"What's going on?" Armaend whispered loudly. "How come we're moving?"

"Sh, keep it down," Vurt whispered back. "The Hett are up to
something. Bosun says we have to stop them. Now come on."

Corner by corner, house by house, one back yard at a time, they crept
like thieves through the town they had always called home. A faint
tang of pine smoke hung in the air, as familiar to Piaerre as the
smell of his own sweat. A young goat bleated from a rooftop pen; a cat
darted across the street, startling them into silent immobility for a
moment. Somewhere nearby, a soldier laughed at another's joke. All
around them, people sat in front of their fireplaces or lay awake in
their beds, wondering where they were bound, and what new disaster
would befall them tomorrow.

When they reached Mamaere Mayeule's, Piaerre whispered, "Wait a beat,"
to his grandfather.

"What are you doing?" Vurt asked as his grandson gently opened the
shutter on Mayeule's kitchen window.

"I just have to get something," Piaerre whispered back. He stood up
and wriggled through the window. If Mayeule had left any pots or
plates out... Or if she or Iseulle had moved Razi's things...

But there weren't, and they hadn't-the leather tube and the
quicksilver sword in its bottle sheath were still in the bottom of the
box of blankets. He froze at the sound of boots on the other side of
the kitchen door, then passed the items one by one through the window
to his grandfather.

"What the saints are these?" Vurt whispered.

"They're Razi's," Piaerre whispered back. If she tried to speak to him
again, he wanted to be able to answer. And he couldn't leave the sword
in Mamaere Mayeule's-if anyone was going to be punished for it, it
would be him.

Thomas, Laeuc, Uyves, and Gaeston were waiting for them in the trees a
dozen strides past the end of Slip Street. Two soldiers were there
too, lying awkwardly on the ground. Their blood had spread like an ink
stain on either side of them.

"Had to be done," Gaeston said, in the same tone he would have used if
the dead men had been rabbits caught among his tomatoes. "And it's two
less we'll have to-"

"Forchem!" a harsh voice shouted behind them. A sharp whistle pierced
the night.

"Go!" the bosun shouted. He turned toward the shout, brandishing a
sword he had taken from one of the fallen soldiers.

Thunk! The crossbow quarrel hit him full in the chest. One moment he
was standing, the next he was down on the ground beside the dead
soldiers, his arms flung out at his sides. The sword he had picked up
clattered past Piaerre's feet; the feathered end of the quarrel stuck
up out of his chest like a lone tree on an otherwise barren island.

Swick! Piaerre cried out as another bolt whistled past his ear, then
turned and scrambled down the ladder two rungs at a time.

Piaerre yelped when his grandfather grabbed his leg at the bottom of
the ladder. "Are you all right?" Papaere Vurt demanded.

"The bosun," Piaerre choked. "He's- Papaere, they shot him."

Papaere Vurt pushed him forward. "Go with your paere. Go on!" A dozen
strides away, the Presumption bobbed up and down in the air next to
the verandah. Gaeston, Donaien, and Armaend were already on board,
clutching white-knuckled at the gunwales as Laeuc climbed in awkwardly
beside them. At the bow, Thomas was hurriedly untying the boat's
tether.

Piaerre's boots drummed on the verandah. Laeuc grabbed his son's hand
and pulled him over the gunwale. Just as Piaerre felt onto the deck,
someone screamed at the top of the stairs.

The Avauntois all ducked. "What are you waiting for?" Papaere Vurt
yelled. "Get the hells out of here!" He yanked hard on the cord in his
hand, and was answered by another scream.

"Go!" the old man bellowed again. Thomas tossed the mooring line into
the boat's bow and vaulted in after it. The Presumption dipped
slightly and began drifting away from the porch.

Vurt watched the boat drop out of sight, then stooped to pick up
another string. He had spent most of the afternoon preparing surprises
for unexpected guests. It would take the soldiers a few minutes to put
a tourniquet on their unlucky comrade's leg. They would move
cautiously after that, poking each step with their swords before
putting weight on it. He doubted that they'd think to check the
branches over their heads...

The Presumption turned to port in a long, descending arc to point back
the way the mountain had come. In the distance, the great stone tower
that had been built to await the mountain's arrival stood proud and
tall, its mission accomplished. There was nothing left of Tinhead
except a scar in the earth, half a league wide and a hundred strides
deep. Piaerre wondered what people would make of it a thousand years
hence. The scar would probably become a little lake, but what about
the tower? Would it still stand there, its purpose forgotten, like the
giant stone hands that reached up out of the plains of Vaarda? Would
anyone remember why it had been built, or what it had meant?

"I'll remember," Piaerre whispered, thinking of the bosun. The tears
on his cheeks were cold, but he didn't wipe them away. "I promise-I'll
remember."

Laeuc shifted beside him and put an arm around his son's
shoulders. Piaerre leaned against his father and watched the night fly
by.

* * *

Avaunt was climbing fast-there was already half a gallop of empty air
between its belly and the forest below. The Presumption was climbing
faster, though; Piaerre could hear goats bleating faintly to one
another below, which meant they were already above Forecastle Road. As
they flew through the night, he remembered a picture he had once seen
of a pearl diver floating beside a coral reef off the coast of Barra
Bantang. Avaunt loomed over the Presumption like that reef, gray and
black in the moonlight. The braided pines on its flanks watched them
pass, solemn and menacing; a lonely sickle-wing bat flitted across
their path with a sound like crumpling paper.

Gaeston was the first to speak. "He'll be missed."

Laeuc nodded heavily. Piaerre felt his father's chest inflate, then
heard him sigh, long and shaky. "He will."

Gaeston shifted on the plank seat. "What do you think they'll do to
Vurt?"

Laeuc's arm tightened around his son's shoulders. "I don't know."

Piaerre shook off his father's arm and sat up. "So what are we going
to do now?" he asked dully. The bosun was dead. And his papaere-no,
please, not his papaere. Saving Avaunt from the Hett, and destroying
the Pilot Stone, suddenly seemed too abstract to be important. He just
wanted his papaere to be all right.

"We carry on," Thomas said. He was sitting at the stern, one hand on
the rudder, the other palm-up in his lap. Every few moments his
fingers twitched, whether because he was casting a spell, or because
they were falling asleep, Piaerre couldn't tell. "And we try to look
on the bright side. I mean, fewer of you does mean less chance of
being spotted."

Gaeston's grip tightened on his spear. "It doesn't bother you at all,
does it?" he said levelly. "Them being dead."

"Don't say that!" Piaerre snapped. "And don't tell me to shush," he
added petulantly as his father made a soothing noise, instantly hating
himself for sounding like a child.

Laeuc patted the air. "All right, all right, just calm down."

"Boy has a point, though," Donaien said. "What are we going to do
now?"

Thomas smiled. "As I said-carry on. Piaerre? Look in the cabin,
there's a good lad. On the shelf, port side from the door. There's a
jar a little larger than your two fists, with a lid. Bring it to me."

Piaerre stood, grabbing the bracket atop the boat's small cabin to
steady himself. The door folded inward in the middle like a book. He
stuck his head inside, blinking in the soft red glow of a dayglass
lantern whose cover had been lifted by a string attached to the
door. Why red? he wondered. Red was the cheapest stuff there was;
surely a magician like Thomas could afford better?

The cabin's walls were lined with shelves from floor to
ceiling. Boxes, jars, bottles, and books stood side by side, held in
place by fine silk nets. As he reached for the nearest shelf to steady
himself, a small ceramic turtle tried to hide behind a larger
inanimate one. "Sh," Piaerre said softly. "I won't hurt you."

The jar was where Thomas had said it would be. It vibrated faintly in
Piaerre's hand. He poked his head back through the door and held it
up. "This one?"

"Yes, thank you. Sra Laeuc? Could you take the rudder, please?"

Laeuc stood up, then hesitated. "Oh, don't worry, it's really quite
easy," the magician said.

"Is it going to burn me like it burned Matthieu?" Laeuc asked.

"Ah." The magician licked the ball of his thumb, snapped his fingers,
and pressed a wet mark against Laeuc's cheek. "There."

Laeuc slid into the steerage seat, hesitated just a heartbeat, and
then gripped the tiller firmly. No green flames leaped up to bite
him. "Just hold her course," the magician said. "We have plenty of
clearance, and the wind seems steady."

He took the jar from Piaerre and strode forward, stepping lightly over
Armaend and Donaien's legs. Once at the bow, he twisted the jar's
lid. A dozen glowing, buzzing dots shot out. Piaerre gasped as they
whirled around Thomas's head. Fireflies!

"What in the hells are those?" Gaeston demanded.

"They're from the East Pole," Thomas said. "Aren't they marvelous?" He
spread his arms as the glowing specks swirled around him. "They're
drawn to power, like bees to nectar. If anyone's working a spell up
here tonight, these little darlings will find them."

Thomas whistled two notes, high then low, and pointed at the mountain
beside them. Buzzing furiously, the fireflies bunched together, then
streamed away into the night.

Thomas strode back to the steersman's seat and took the tiller from
Laeuc. With a twitch of his hand, the Presumption heeled
sharply. "Hoy!" As one, the Avauntois grabbed for handholds.

"Saints and sweet onions!" Gaeston swore. "Warn a man the next time
you do that, will you? Or we'll be getting off a lot sooner than we'd
like."

"My apologies, of course," Thomas said without taking his eyes off the
receding specks of light. "It would probably best if you all held onto
something for the next little while. I don't want to lose them."

The fireflies darted here and there, exploring each crack and crevice
in the mountainside. Sometimes they got so far ahead of the
Presumption that Thomas had to whistle them back. Twice, they
disappeared completely into the mountain, only to re-emerge moments
later to continue their search. Finally, they disappeared from sight.

"Here," Thomas said, passing the jar to Piaerre. "You see the hole in
the side? Twist the lid. No, slowly." The other Avauntois watched as
Piaerre obeyed.

The hole in the lip of the jar was as small around as his little
finger. There was a matching hole in the lid. When he lined the two
up, a single firefly shot out into the night, then a second. Piaerre
hastily twisted the lid back to block their escape.

Thomas swung the rudder over to send the Presumption chasing after the
glowing dots. "Now, here's the plan," he said. "When we get close,
I'll let you off, then fly on to draw their attention. I don't know
how many of them there'll be, but it's imperative that you get the
stone and get away as quickly as you can. Don't worry about which way
to go," he added as Donaien opened his mouth. "I'll find you."

Gaeston muttered something under his breath. "Was there a question?"
Thomas asked.

"I said, it doesn't sound like much of a plan to me. How about we just
smash the damn thing, then run like rabbits?"

"Absolutely not," Thomas said sharply.

"Why not?" Gaeston asked. "One whack with a big enough hammer, that's
the end of whatever they're up to."

"Possibly," Thomas agreed. "But it would probably also mean the end of
the mountain."

"What?"

"I said, it's-"

"I heard what you said. What do you mean, the end of the mountain?"

"Just what I said. I'm not positive, but I suspect that stone is what
keeps Avaunt flying. If you smash it, you'll probably be part of the
landscape a few heartbeats later."

In the silence that followed, a sudden suspicion turned Piaerre's gut
cold. "That's the real reason you want it, isn't it? You want to
control the mountain yourself!"

Gaeston balled his hands into fists. "You scheming little-"

Thomas twitched the rudder. The Presumption rolled sharply from side
to side. Gaeston staggered and fell to his knees as the others grabbed
for an extra handhold. "I suggest you stay mindful of whose boat
you're on," Thomas warned him. "Yes, if I have the stone, then
conceivably I might-might-be able to control the mountain. But why
would I want to? Being your captain interests me rather less than
being a stable boy."

"Then why?" Laeuc asked.

Thomas shrugged. "I want to know how it works. There may be magicians
out there who have traded away their curiosity, but I'm not one of
them. This could be the greatest discovery since the fall of the
Uncertain Angels. It could give us whole new ways to see the world,
whole new ways of doing magic. Now, I suggest you all do whatever you
need to do to make ready. Piaerre? Anotehr firefly, please?"

As Piaerre turned the jar's lid to free another firefly, Gaeston and
Armaend strung their bows. There was nothing for Laeuc and Donaien to
do except stand their spears in front of them and wait. The only sound
was the sail snapping in the wind.

"And another, please," Thomas said a few minutes later. Piaerre
released it carefully. Instead of racing straight ahead, it circled
the mast, then shot away to starboard, straight up the side of the
mountain.

"Hang on," the magician warned. The Presumption swung away from the
mountain, then rolled on her side as Thomas doubled them back on their
course. For a brief moment, Piaerre was looking straight down at the
mountain, as if it were level ground.

"Where's it going?" Gaeston demanded.

"I don't know." For the first time, Thomas sounded unsure of
himself. "But someone must be-"

Whoomp! Somewhere high above them, orange light flared and died. "Oh
saints," Piaerre whispered. He grabbed his father's sleeve. "It's
banefire! Paere, it's banefire!"

"It most certainly is," Thomas said through gritted teeth. The
Presumption slowed, her course bending to port.

"What are you doing?" Gaeston asked as the boat drifted closer to the
mountain.

"Letting you off," the magician replied shortly.

"What?!"

Whoomp! Another burst of fire lit the sky above them. A moment later,
the sharp tang of burning pine caught inside Piaerre's throat.

"I said, I'm letting you off," Thomas snapped. "Laeuc, if you please,
those branches up ahead-can you throw a tether around them? Unless
you'd rather just jump?"

Gaeston stood up. The bow in his hands wasn't quite drawn; the arrow
notched in it wasn't quite pointed at Thomas. "Tell me we're close,"
he said. "Tell me this is part of your plan."

"I have no idea whether we're close or not," Thomas replied testily,
his eyes on the tops of the trees he was steering them toward. "But I
am not taking this boat any closer to that mess than it is right
now. Best wishes, good luck, may your grandchildren's grandchildren
all bear your name, and so on."

Gaeston raised his bow. "Like hell."

Piaerre never found out what would have happened next, because Armaend
shouted, "Look! It's the bookster!"

He whirled around. A familiar lean figure was racing toward them like
a leaf blown by a gale. Moonlight gleamed off his shaven head as he
leaped over a fallen tree, missed his footing, slid, rolled back to
his feet, and came on running once more.

A heartbeat later, his pursuers burst out of the trees behind him,
steel in their hands. As Piaerre watched, one of them knelt and raised
a crossbow. A branch above Razi's head whipped aside as the quarrel
struck it, but the bookster kept running.

And then four soldiers came out of the trees in a tight knot around a
bareheaded man who raised his arms and clapped them together over his
head. Whoomp! A ball of fire as big as a house blossomed in the sky
above the fleeing bookster.

"Run! Run!" Piaerre screamed.

Razi didn't need to be told. He dove face-first down the side of the
mountain. Flaming destruction crashed to the ground a hand's breath
behind the soles of his sandals as he crashed through the bushes. Pine
trees exploded as pitch boiled and burst into flame, but he was
already on his feet again, running again.

"He's trapped!" Laeuc shouted, pointing. Dead ahead, the forest ended
at the edge of a cliff.

Piaerre spun around. "Pull in closer!"

The magician held the rudder steady. "No."

Gaeston raised his bow once again. "You heard the boy."

Thomas shook his head. "They'll kill us all," he said steadily.

For a moment, Gaeston didn't move, then- "No!" Piaerre shouted, as
Gaeston lowered his bow. Without thinking, he threw himself at Thomas.

"Piaerre!" Laeuc shouted, but his son's shoulder had already slammed
into the magician's chest. As Thomas clutched at a guyline to save
himself from falling, Piaerre grabbed the rudder with his left
hand. Green flames spurted up around it, singing his wrist and
forearm, but his numb hand couldn't feel it.

He threw his weight onto the rudder. The Presumption tilted
sharply. Donaien's spear clattered to the deck as he grabbed the
gunwale with one hand and Armaend with the other. Gaeston and Laeuc
shouted incoherently as the boat flew straight at the mountain.

"Run!" Piaerre screamed at Razi. "Run!"

Twenty strides, ten, five-just as Razi threw himself over the cliff,
Thomas pulled Piaerre out of the steering seat. "You idiot!" he
shouted, wrestling with the rudder as the boat's starboard side
scraped against the mountain. "You've killed us all!"

Thunk! A crossbow quarrel sprouted from the mast. Razi hit it a moment
later and fell to the deck.

"Oh hells," Gaeston swore. Piaerre whirled around. Standing at the top
of the cliff, the Hett magician raised his hands and brought them
together above his head. As fire bloomed above them, Thomas raised his
own arms and shouted three words.

Whoomp! Banefire fell toward them. Piaerre screamed in terror as it
splashed against something invisible a stride above the mast. A
roiling mass of fire slipped around them, past them, fell away behind
them as the Presumption fled into the night.

"Razi!" Piaerre shook his father off and knelt beside the bookster. He
shook him. "Razi, wake up. Wake up!"

The bookster groaned and opened his eyes. "La..." He coughed and sat
up.

"You bastard," Thomas spat coldly behind them. "You unutterable
cake-eating bastard. Do you know what you've done? Do you know what
you've done!?"

"He saved the bookster, that's what he did," Gaeston said.

"I mean to me!" Thomas sobbed. "I can't read! I can't read!" He raised
a fist, opened it, pointed at Piaerre-

-and froze. "Put it away," Gaeston said, his arrow aimed squarely at
 Thomas's chest.

"But I can't read," Thomas whispered.

Razi finally managed to stand, if unsteadily. "La, that was Idjfikan's
Other Device, then?" He raised his palms. "I am grateful for your
sacrifice, and I am sure Lady Kembe will be as well."

"You can both rot in hell." Tears glistened on the magician's cheeks.

Razi lowered his hands and shrugged. "La, perhaps." He nodded to
Piaerre. "Well done."

Piaerre nodded back. The skin on his wrist had reddened, as if it had
been scalded, but his hand was untouched. He looked past his father at
Gaeston. For a moment, their eyes locked, and then Fraederiq's father
grudgingly said, "Good enough."

* * *

"We traveled underground," the bookster told the Avauntois as they
flew through the night. The Hett had taken him through tunnels as busy
as an anthill, intending perhaps to show him just how many of them
there were, and how well prepared. Entire families were working side
by side, scraping the accumulated muck of centuries off the walls,
repairing ancient clockwork, building chicken coops and forges, all in
preparation for whatever was to come next.

Razi didn't tell them how he had escaped from his guards. He didn't
explain where the fresh cut on his left cheek had come from, either,
or why he had a strip of Hett uniform cloth wrapped around his right
hand, and a Hett knife tucked into his deel's belt. But he did confirm
what Thomas had said: the Hett were about to begin their Great Work,
and it would start with a ceremony at the mountain's peak that night.

"Not much we can do about it now, is there?" Thomas said
sullenly. "After that little episode back there, they'll have a
hundred eyes on the sky. As soon as they see our topsail, they'll hit
us with everything they have. I can't use Idjfikan's twice, you know."
The venom in his voice made Piaerre's blood run cold.

"You won't have to," Razi replied gently. "You just have to get us
into the tunnels. Once we're there, la, I think I can get us as close
as we need to be."

The Presumption slid through the night, the men aboard her silent and
watchful as she climbed toward the mountain's peak. They saw hand
lanterns in the forest below them, and then a campfire. The soldiers
warming themselves around it grumbled and joked as they whiled away
the night. Donaien reached for his bow at the sound, but not for his
arrows. He and Armaend hadn't said a word since Thomas's hasty spell
had saved them all from the Hett banefire.

"There," Razi said suddenly, pointing. "That one."

Piaerre stood up to see. "Get your head down," Thomas hissed.

"Ssh." Razi patted the air to quiet him. Back beside his father,
Piaerre craned his neck to look. For a moment he saw nothing except
another cliff, but then the shadows resolved themselves. The one
directly ahead was too regular to be natural. It was the mouth of a
tunnel, tilted over a quarter of an arc like all those on Avaunt, but
twice the size of any Piaerre had ever seen.

Gaeston crouched in the bow as Thomas took the Presumption up to the
cliff face. "A little more, a little more... Right." He stepped onto
the gunwale; his boots thudded on the tunnel floor a heartbeat
later. He turned and grabbed the rope Donaien tossed him, pulling it
taut to bring the Presumption's bowsprit into the tunnel's mouth.

The boat swayed slightly as the Avauntois made their way forward one
by one to clamber over the gunwale, slide along the bowsprit, and drop
to the tunnel floor. When Piaerre's turn came, his father said,
"Piaerre?"

"I'll be careful," he promised over his shoulder.

"I know," Laeuc said. "I was just going to say, I'm proud of you. Now
let's go."

Piaerre swung his legs over the side and took Donaien's hand. His
boots couldn't find traction on the polished stone-they kept wanting
to slide into the crook of the sharp vee between the tilted wall and
floor.

Donaien, Armaend, and Gaeston already had little hand lamps out, and
were putting on their climbing harnesses. "Here," Laeuc said, handing
Piaerre his. "Tighten it all the way."

"What about you?"

Laeuc held up a tangle of straps and buckles. "I'll use Uyves'." His
son nodded and stepped into the harness's leg loops, then shrugged his
arms into the shoulder straps and began buckling them.

Razi undid the rope. The Presumption drifted away slowly, until the
wind bellied her sails and Thomas put his weight to the rudder. He
didn't wave goodbye; neither did the Avauntois.

Gaeston spat on the tunnel floor. "We can't let him have the
stone. You know that, don't you?"

Laeuc nodded. "I know." He looked at Donaien and Armaend, who nodded
in turn.

"Wish the bosun was here," Armaend said.

Gaeston grunted. "Or the dragon." He eyed the bookster. "You ready?"

Razi spread his palms. He had no climbing harness, but had looped a
rope taken from Thomas's boat over his shoulders and around his waist.

"Heh." Gaeston spat. "S'pose it'll do. Now, which way?"

In answer, Razi held up Thomas's jar of fireflies. Grinning, he
twisted the jar's lid until a single blue-green dot shot out, whizzed
around his head, and zoomed away into the darkness. Without a word,
they followed it.

Thirty strides in, the tunnel ended in a tee. One arm dropped at a
sharp angle to their left; the other rose equally sharply to their
right. Two rusty iron rails lay parallel, a thumb apart, on what had
been the tunnel's floor. Razi released another firefly; it shot up the
shaft and out of sight.

"Right," Gaeston said, clipping his lamp to his belt and untying a
pocket on his vest. "Anyone else have spat wedges?" He held up a
bell-mouthed twist of steel. As the others fished them out, Gaeston
hammered the wedge home between the rails with the heel of his
hand. It slipped slightly when he tugged on it, but caught and held.

He turned back to the others. "How many have we got? Eight? Ten? How
about you, Donaien? Good man, that's eighteen. So, here's what we're
going to do."

Ten minutes later, the spat wedges were strung at two-stride intervals
along a loop of braided silk climbing rope that had cost Gaeston an
entire trip's worth of pepper. "Top man sets, last man pulls," Gaeston
said. "Laeuc takes the middle, and the boy is right behind me with
those bugs. Everyone set?"

It was slow, tiring work. Over and over, Gaeston jammed a wedge
between the rails, threw his weight against it to make sure it was
secure, then lunged upward from the one he was standing on to get a
foothold on the one he had just set. At the end of the line, Armaend
levered wedges out with the toe of his boot and passed them up to the
top of the line.

Piaerre's arms and legs ached, then burned, then settled into the dull
weariness brought on by hard labor that has no end in sight. The moist
air made his shirt stick to him like a moldy leaf; his scalded left
arm alternately itched and throbbed.

Wondering how much further it could be, he leaned sideways to see past
the soles of Gaeston's boots. Suddenly, his foot slipped. "Whoa!" he
exclaimed, half-sliding, half-rolling down the shaft.

Laeuc grabbed his pant leg as he went by. Piaerre found himself
hanging upside down on his back, one cheek against his father's boot,
looking into Razi's startled eyes.

"La, are you all right?" Razi asked.

"I'm fine," Piaerre lied. He was upside down in the dark, in a tunnel
carved who knew how long ago, inside a mountain flying saints knew
where, on his way to steal a magic stone from an invading army. And if
he didn't do something about his bladder, soon, he'd be embarrassed as
well as terrified. "I'm fine."

It only took a moment for him to right himself. He moved more
carefully after that, trying hard to think of nothing beyond the next
pull, the next step, the next muscle-burning raise. Thirty wedges,
forty... He lost count of how many times he slid the catch-clip on his
harness up the belay rope and raised his weight behind it, but finally
they reached the top.

One by one they pulled themselves into the horizontal passage at the
top of the shaft and collapsed, panting, in the light of their hand
lamps. After a few heartbeats, Gaeston pointed at Razi. "Time for
another?"

Razi twisted the jar's lid. Two points of light escaped. They circled
each other like sparks rising from a fire, then raced away down the
tunnel. Rolling to his feet, Gaeston took the two halves of his spear
from his pack, screwed the haft together, and followed them. Behind
him, the others followed suit.

A hundred strides, two... Piaerre had no idea what time it was, or
what direction they were heading. Or what they would do when they got
there. "Steal the stone" wasn't much of a plan-not even as much as the
heroes in stories usually had.

Suddenly Gaeston stopped and raised his hand. Something was rumbling
in the distance, like thunder that wouldn't stop, or a giant snoring.

"Right," Gaeston whispered. "Armaend, Laeuc, bows out. Donaien, you're
with me. Bookster, you-hells, you do whatever you want."

Piaerre pressed himself against the tilted wall to let the grown-ups
pass. They crept forward as if they were on a rabbit hunt, arrows
strung, spears at the ready. There was a slight breeze, barely enough
to stir Piaerre's hair, but colder than the moist air they had been
walking through. It smelled faintly of oil and wet cinders.

The passage opened onto a room tilted at the same dizzy angle as
everything else inside the mountain. The floor and ceiling reflected
the light from their lanterns; the walls next to them vanished in the
darkness. "La, allow me," the bookster said. He drew something from
inside his deel and threw it against the floor. It tinkled like
breaking glass and started glowing.

"Yoah," Piaerre breathed. The room was enormous-if you put Mamaere
Mayeule's house in one corner, and the Captain's House in the other,
you'd still have room for a sizeable garden between them. The only
break in the polished walls was a square opening opposite them,
identical to the one they had just come through.

They were halfway to it when a whistle blew behind them. "Run!"
Gaeston shouted needlessly. Voices shouted behind them. Piaerre
glanced over his shoulder. Soldiers in steel helmets were spilling out
of the tunnel behind them.

"Forchem!" a voice commanded-"Shoot them!" Thwack! Thwack! Crossbow
quarrels whistled past Piaerre's ears.

Razi reached the door first. He spun around, shouting, "Through,
through!" His quicksilver sword lashed the air like an angry cat's
tail as Gaeston and Donaien followed, then Laeuc, and then Armaend...
But no, Armaend was down, kicking his legs feebly and pulling on the
crossbow bolt in his side before going limp. Without thinking, Piaerre
lengthened his stride and jumped over him.

His father grabbed his arm. "Come on!" he shouted, pulling Piaerre
on. They pelted down the corridor ten strides behind the others. Left,
right, right again, to a stairway lying halfway over on its side,
while ahead of them, the rumbling grew steadily louder.

Razi pulled a dark blue vial from one of his pockets. "Where is the
other?" he demanded.

"They shot him," Piaerre panted. "I think he's dead."

Four heads turned to look at Donaien. He blinked. "What? No. No, he
can't be." He started back the way they had come.

Gaeston grabbed Donaien's sleeve. "Come on," he said roughly. "No. We
have to keep going."

Donaien knocked his hand away and pushed Laeuc aside. "Armaend!
Armaend!" he shouted as he ran back the way they had come.

"Cake," Gaeston spat. "Come on."

"What? We can't just leave him!" Laeuc protested.

"La, but we must," Razi said urgently. He uncorked the blue vial and
let three drops fall to the floor. Chocolate darkness billowed up
where they fell. "Hurry."

They took the stairs in long strides, as if stepping from stone to
stone across a stream. There was a shout behind them, then a cry, then
silence. A moment later Hett voices yelled to one another inside the
dark cloud Razi's potion had made.

They passed two doors, a third, and stopped in front of the
fourth. Razi pushed it gently with a fingertip, then with the flat of
his hand, then leaned his shoulder against it. It gave a little, but
didn't open. "Saad," he swore.

"Mind if I try?" Gaeston asked.

Razi stepped back and waved. Gaeston brought his foot up and kicked
the door hard. It burst open with a bang.

Razi winced. "Thank you, I think." The others followed him through.

Piaerre gasped and clutched at the doorframe. He had thought the last
room was big...

They were standing on a balcony the size of his family's house. The
downward tilt of the floor made Piaerre feel like he was falling into
space. Below them lay a huge stone amphitheatre. Its floor was a maze
of carved stone benches, waist-high walls, free-standing doors, and
heavy sculptures that reminded Piaerre of the pictures children drew
of monsters. Glowing globes of dayglass, the smallest larger than any
piece Piaerre had ever seen, shone here and there in the maze.

And overhead-overhead, the entire roof was opening up like a
flower. Four petals of stone, each a hundred strides from tip to base
and twenty strides thick, were slowly pivoting upward, opening the
amphitheatre to the sky.

"There," Razi said, pointing. A flat-topped pyramid, two stories high,
stood at an angle in the center of the amphitheatre. The Hett had
built a wooden stage around it to give themselves a level floor; their
boots drummed on its planks as they hurried back and forth between the
strange machines assembled on it. They were made of gold and glass, of
granite, of brightly-colored coral and enormous bones, all connected
by gear trains and cables.

As the Avauntois stared in wonder and horror, an eerie blue light rose
from one of the machines like steam from a kettle. A face, ten times
life size and too narrow to be human, suddenly appeared above another,
its mouth open as if to laugh or scream, then vanished. As it did so,
the rumbling suddenly stopped, leaving the four sections of the stone
roof standing upright around them like faceless guardians.

Razi cursed, fast and low. "We must find stairs," he said.

Gaeston caught his sleeve. "It'll be faster to climb. Here." Handing
his spear to Razi, he slipped the coil of rope off his shoulder and
knotted it around the balcony's stone railing.

"Will it take your weight?" Laeuc asked.

Gaeston shrugged. "Only one way to find out, isn't there?" He swung
his leg over the railing.

* * *

A minute later, the five of them stood together on the amphitheatre's
tilted floor. A thousand balconies stared down at them like spectators
at some strange game; ahead and below, the Hett hurried about their
work.

"La, we have company," Razi whispered, pointing. Four soldiers were
marching toward the center stage. Sitting upright on the sedan chair
they carried was a middle-aged man in a plain gray uniform. He swayed
slightly with the chair's motion, but looked neither right nor left.

Gaeston tightened his grip on his spear. "One of their magicians?"

Razi nodded. "Just so. And la, do you see over there? I think they are
the others." Two more sedan chairs stood empty next to the wooden
stage. A uniformed woman with her hair pulled back in a severe white
bun was being helped down from a third. She kept one hand on the
shoulder of the soldier helping her as he led her over to where two
others were standing.

Gaeston made a sound in his throat. "They blind?"

"La, not the soldiers. There are more of them than I had hoped."

"Well, I didn't come all this way just to watch them do whatever the
weeping hells they're going to do!"

"Sh." Razi raised a warning hand. "Blind is not deaf. I only meant, we
cannot simply attack them. They would reap us like wheat."

"So what do you suggest?" Laeuc asked.

Razi pointed at the arched doorway the last sedan chair had come
through. "If their magicians came from Forecastle, then the stone
should come the same route. Perhaps there will be fewer guarding it
than there are here."

"And then?"

Razi shrugged eloquently.

They hurried toward the stage, bent nearly double to hide behind the
stone pews and statues. Thummmmm... Two more machines lit up, one
purple, the other green.

In the center of the stage, Hett soldiers lifted the lid off a
heavy-looking crate. Quickly but carefully, they levered its walls
apart and cleared away matted straw to reveal a statue of a man with
ram's horns curled on the sides of his head.

"Saints and their mercies," Razi whispered. "Oh, la, saints, if you
have ever guided us, guide us now."

"What is it?" Laeuc asked, but the bookster was already two strides
away, as light and as deadly as a tiger on the hunt.

Around a wall, through a door, past a statue of a bear with bat wings
and a snake for a tail, up two stairs and down two more... With every
step, Piaerre was afraid one of the Hett would look their way, but
none did.

A fourth machine came to life, adding orange to the swirling
light. They were a hundred strides from the entrance the Hett wizard
had come through. Eighty, fifty, twenty...

Razi pulled up short as a squad of soldiers marched into the room,
followed by a second and a third. A gray-haired man, his face
half-drowned by a heavy beard, followed them, and was in turn followed
by three more squads.

In his hands, the man held a polished marble casket. Piaerre's heart
sank. It had to be the Pilot Stone, but there were almost fifty
soldiers around it. There was no way they could-

Razi stood and pitched three dark blue vials at the soldiers. Even
before they hit the floor he was running, his quicksilver sword in his
hand.

Crack! Crack! Crack! Darkness billowed up from the shattered vials. As
it engulfed the bookster, Laeuc sent an arrow whistling through the
air at the nearest soldier. "Could have weeping told us!" Gaeston
bellowed, stepping into guard position as Laeuc drew another arrow
from the quiver on his hip.

"Piaerre!" Laeuc shouted. "Get behind us!" But his son was already
running toward the inky cloud that had swallowed the bookster.

He held his breath, expecting smoke, but the darkness had no more
taste or smell than a shadow. Ahead of him, metal clanged on metal. A
cry for aid was suddenly cut off.

He banged his shin hard against something as his father shouted his
name again. What had he been thinking? He couldn't help Razi-he didn't
even know where he was.

Suddenly he slipped on something wet. "Oof!" He fell clumsily to the
floor.

"Ashenope! Ashenope arra te paurenatepe ejo!" Someone grabbed his
hand, holding tight when he tried to pull away, and pushed something
heavy into his arms.

Smooth, heavy, and cool to the touch... He ran his hands over it,
already knowing what they would tell him. Angled sides, rounded
corners, a flat top: it was the casket the Hett had been carrying. It
was the Pilot Stone.

The darkness cleared a moment later to reveal a scene of
confusion. Razi was on his knees, his hands behind his head, one
crossbow against his back, another pointed at his chest. The hilt of
his sword lay just out of reach in a pool of mercury. Three men lay in
pools of their own blood beside him. One of them was the man who had
been carrying the casket.

Ten strides away, Gaeston and Laeuc looked at the circle of Hett
soldiers around them and lowered their weapons. "But I'm damned if
I'll kneel," Gaeston spat.

A bald Hett with four ribbons tied around his sleeve led one of the
iron-eyed magicians down from the stage and over to Razi. "Auedje ne
atarappa paurenatepe ke fe iuadje te?" she demanded coldly.

Razi smiled politely as blood started to run down his chin. "La, my
apologies, but I don't speak-"

"Oh yes you do," the Hett magician said in Avauntois. "Now, where is
it?"

Razi shrugged without taking his hands from his head. "I swear, I do
not know."

"All right." She pointed at the two Avauntois. "Pick one."

"La, you can murder those men if you want," Razi said, "I still
won't-"

"Murder?" The Hett laughed angrily. "You talk to me of murder? How
many men have you killed tonight? Eight? Ten?"

"I regret that," the bookster replied calmly. "Truly, I do."

"Tell it to their families," the Hett snarled. She stabbed an angry
finger at Razi. "I am tired of my people dying, do you understand
that? I am tired of people who have done no harm in this world being
beaten by drunks, or driven from their homes by mobs, or robbed blind
by petty lordlings who know that no one will defend them. Your
mistress has done nothing to help us-nothing!-and neither has anyone
else, so now we are going to help ourselves."

"I grieve for your wounds," Razi said. "But what was done to you does
not make right what you would do here."

"No, it doesn't," she agreed coldly. "But it will stop it from ever
happening again. Now, where is the stone?"

Razi said nothing. The woman's jaw tightened. "Very well. Colonel!
That one." She pointed at Laeuc.

The soldier who had led her over to Razi snapped a salute. Drawing his
sword, he walked ten paces across the tilted stone floor to stand
beside the Avauntois.

"I will ask you once more," she said softly. "Or twice, if need
be. And then it will be your turn."

Razi looked up at her steadily. "As you will."

She turned and raised her arm. The Hett soldier brought his sword up.

"No!" Piaerre shouted. The magician whirled around. Twenty strides
away, Piaerre stood with the casket above his head. Its contents, a
rough stone that gleamed like iron, lay on the pedestal of the statue
beside him. "Let him go, or I'll smash it!"

The soldier glanced at the magician. She shook her head. "Neh."

"I'll do it!" Piaerre shouted. "I swear on my blood, I will!"

The magician laughed. "Go ahead." Behind her, Laeuc made a small sound
as the Hett added a hair's weight to the pressure on his sword. "But I
swear on my blood, if you do, there will be nothing left of Starboard
Town but ashes when the sun comes up."

The moment stretched and stretched. Laeuc gurgled as the soldier
pressed his sword a hair's weight harder against his throat. "Don't
you weeping dare," Gaeston growled.

Piaerre looked at Razi. The bookster's calm, clear eyes held his. He
didn't nod, or shake his head-he just waited.

Piaerre sagged. "Here," he said, setting the casket on the pedestal
beside the Pilot Stone. "Take it."

As the soldiers stepped forward, Razi lashed out with his foot. The
blow caught the magician just below the ribs. As she crumpled
backward, Razi snatched up the hilt of his sword and slashed at the
nearest soldier.

Who flinched, and then laughed. "Teppate me peua netahante adj auje,"
he said, pointing at the pool of quicksilver that still lay on the
floor.

"La, I suppose not," Razi said. He threw the sword hilt at the
soldier-

-and collapsed like a puppet whose strings had been cut. Behind him,
 the magician he'd kicked lowered her arm. "This grows tiresome," she
 gasped.

The soldier beside her helped her to her feet. "Ede ebpeten," she
said. "Get him up. And bring them here-all of them."

Rough hands dragged Piaerre to the stage and pushed him to his knees
beside his father and Gaeston. A wobbly Razi hit the planks with a
thud a moment later.

"Now watch," the magician said. "Watch, so that your mistress will
know not to meddle here again." She took the casket from the soldier
holding it and walked up to the stage.

The lights above the strange machines on the stage throbbed the colors
of the week, purple and blue, green and yellow, orange, and deep,
blood red. The magician with the casket took her place in the circle
around the ram-horned statue.

Piaerre could hear the machines now. They were singing to each other,
great long notes that ran from bone-tingling bass to fluting whistles
that made his ears ring. The air tingled as the light folded around
itself and became a shining emptiness too bright to look at. The
magicians were chanting in time with the machines' rhythmic pulse. The
light grew brighter, dazzling Piaerre even through his eyelids.

And then the magician opened the lid of the casket. The light that
shone from inside it was unbearable. It wasn't too hot, or too bright:
it was too real. Piaerre threw up his arm to cover his face, but the
light was still too much. It was shining right through him-right
through the whole world.

As one, the magicians on the stage cried out. Piaerre lowered his arm
just in time to see the light sucked into the top of the statue's
head, like smoke being inhaled.

The whole world held its breath for a moment, and then the statue
opened its eyes and tilted its head to one side. "Finally." The word
appeared inside Piaerre's head, like a sliver of ice dropped into a
pool of water.

As one, the Hett raised their arms. "Aya! Aya! Aya!" they shouted. "It
is done! It is done! It is done!"

"My lord." Tears ran down the Hett magician's face, but her voice was
strong. "My lord, welcome. Welcome back."

"Who are these?" The statue's thought took in Razi and the Avauntois.

"Unhearing ones, my lord. They tried to prevent your return."

"They failed."

"Yes, my lord. Do you wish them returned to the earth?"

"No." The statue slowly swept its gaze around the chamber, taking in
the now-silent machines, the awestruck Hett, and the silent, watchful
balconies. "This place is a mess."

"Yes, my lord."

"It needs mending."

"Yes, my lord." The magician's voice was exultant.

The statue opened its eyes. They were steel marbles, Piaerre
noticed. Even without that, and the horns coiled on either side of its
head where its ears should have been, and its hairlessness, and the
complete lack of anything male or female between its legs, it still
wouldn't have passed for human. It was too perfect.

"This world is damaged." Each word came perfectly formed into
Piaerre's mind. "As is this ship. All needs mending. There are deserts
where there should be gardens. The moon strays from its course."

"Slow poisons rot the heart of the world." The Hett magician spoke the
words aloud in time with the statue. Others joined in, some weeping
with joy. "Rivers run outside their courses, and monsters roam
free. We must mend what is broken."

"We must mend what is broken." the statue agreed. Its steel gaze fell
on the Avauntois. "Go and tell the world. The Great Work begins."

One moment they were standing in the heart of the mountain. The next,
they were on Slip Street, just outside the gate of the Captain's
House. "Hoy!" Gaeston grabbed the gate to steady himself.

"Was that... Was that an Angel?" Piaerre said. Razi nodded.

"But they're dead!"

Razi shrugged. "Not any more."

Anything else he might have said was cut off as the ground lurched,
throwing them to the ground. Slowly but inexorably, the mountain began
to turn over.

 

"And might one ask how you are planning to get there in time to make
any sort of difference?" The Avauntois whirled at the voice, Gaeston
snatching his hoe up to guard position.

Thomas, his face disguised once again, passed a chipped earthenware
bottle of water to Piaerre. "It is rather a long way," he continued,
smiling. "And whatever they are planning to do, they are planning to
do soon."

"Where in the hells did you come from?" "Where's Iseulle?" Gaeston and
Piaerre's words tumbled over top of one another.

"Oh, your friend is quite safe." Thomas put an arm around Piaerre's
shoulders and gently turned him to face back the way the mountain had
come. "See there?" he pointed. Half a dozen clouds drifted near the
horizon in rough formation. "I handed her over to them. They've been
watching the mountain for days now. They'll make sure she gets
somewhere safe."

"So why aren't you with them? Why'd you come back?" growled Gaeston.

"Tsk tsk, so suspicious." The magician glanced up. "Speaking of which,
shouldn't we be sowing or reaping or some such?"

Gaeston took an angry step forward. "Easy," Laeuc cautioned, stepping
between him and the magician. "Let's sort this out at lunch, all
right?"

It was a sullen, tasteless meal, despite the jalapeños in the
cornbread. Gaeston, Marq, and Jaecque sat together, eyeing everyone
with the same hard, distrustful look and saying little. Uyves, Laeuc,
Donaien, and Armaend made up the second group, with Piaerre behind
them. He hadn't been invited, but as he was discovering, that didn't
much matter any more.

There was to be some sort of ceremony that night on the Shoulder,
Thomas told them between mouthfuls. Something to do with the Pilot
Stone. It would mark the real start of the Great Work, and the end of
any hopes the Avauntois might have of getting their mountain back.

"You sound awfully sure of that," Uyves said.

Thomas shrugged. He seemed almost subdued. "They're stronger than I
am. Stronger than anyone I've ever met. My best guess is that the
Pilot Stone is something left behind by the Uncertain Angels, and if
that's true..." He shrugged again. "Janbinder the Great, Uws, Ealx and
Heot, Harpad Praczedneteny-they all used Angelic magic."

"And they all created empires," the bosun finished sourly. "So that's
what you're afraid of."

"That's what the whole world is afraid of. Half the magicians in
Cherne must be trying to focus seeing spells on the mountain right
now, and as far as I know, none have ben able to get through. It's
down to hearsay and Gifted birds and spies like me. If we don't stop
them tonight..." He spread his hands.

"So all we have to do is sneak up on them, dazzle 'em with our fancy
dancing, and snatch the stone?" Uyves snorted. "You're mad."

Thomas's eyes narrowed. "I'd really rather you didn't say that to me
again."

The bosun laughed bitterly. "Or what? You'll turn me into a gerbil?"

"Let him speak," Marq said sharply.

"Why?" Donaien spoke up for the first time. "There's nothing we can
do! Hells, man, if the best magicians in the world can't even get a
look at what's going on up there, what can we do?"

"We can fight," Gaeston said. He nodded at the magician, jerking a
thumb at Marq and Jaecques. "We're in no matter what this lot says."

"Oh for the love of the saints, stop playing the grand hero," the
bosun growled. "We'll all fight. But I hope someone has a plan,
because I sure as hells don't."

"We can talk about that on the way." Thomas stood, brushing his hands
on his trousers fastidiously. "Meet met at Vurt's cottage an hour
after dark. "If those spears of yours are all you know how to use, you
might as well bring them. And your bows, and lanterns, and climbing
gear. You may have to go through the tunnels," he explained, raising a
hand to forestall whatever Uyves was about to say.

The group fell silent. Piaerre looked at their faces, angry and
hopeless in different measures. He wished Razi was there. He'd know
what to do. He wondered where the bookster was-at the Sign of the
Three Rabbits, eating dinner? Or in a cell beneath the Hardeck? Or had
the Hett killed him too?
