Dear Ms Gorinsky,

Please find attached a copy of "Beneath Coriandel", an 81,000-word fantasy novel for adults which I wish to submit for your consideration.  In it, a young man descends into the crypts beneath the city to slay a monster; a woman plots to steal her niece's youth; a talking horse foils a robbery, a ghost remembers how he earned his name, and a magician wonders why she can't get a particular nursery rhyme out of her head.  With swordplay, betrayal, forbidden love, and a philosophically inclined pair of boots, "Beneath Coriandel" should appeal to anyone who liked "The Innkeeper's Song", "The Curse of Chalion", or "A Darker Shade of Magic".

I have previously published two children's books - "Sensible Adventures", with Annick Press, and "Bottle of Light", with Scholastic - and three short fantasy stories, one of which was included in "On Spec" magazine's "best of" collection. I have also written or edited over a dozen non-fiction books (including the award-winning "Beautiful Code") as well as book reviews, scholarly articles, and popular science pieces for "The Independent", "New Scientist", and the like.

Many thanks for considering my work - I look forward to hearing from you.

Best regards,
Greg Wilson
gvwilson@third-bit.com

Synopsis

"Beneath Coriandel" is told from multiple viewpoints, both in the present and through flashbacks.  Its theme is that no one actually knows the whole story behind anything --- no matter how wise or powerful we are, each of us only sees a slice of the truth.  As one of the characters says:

    "Once upon a time there was a young man." That's how stories usually start, but
    it's never the truth---not really. That young man must have had parents---why
    not start with how they met? Or how the village he grew up in was founded? And
    the crafty old magician who gave him three wishes because he saved her from
    pirates---how'd she wind up in a little boat all on her own out in the middle of
    the ocean? And what about the pirates? They must have had families and
    childhoods and wishes and all. Hell, the hero's boots probably have a story too
    if you only knew how to ask them.

    So I guess that's why we say, "Once upon a time." It's like the first dab of
    paint on a wall, or the onion you chop up and fry when you're making a flat-pan
    stew. It isn't necessarily the most important part of what you eventually wind
    up with---it's just what you started with, because you have to start somewhere.

A generation ago, a down-at-heels rogue named Ishad arrived in the desert city of Coriandel.  Broke and bitter after one too many missions in the service of a magician named Lady Kembe, he talks two young Darpani tribesmen into trying to steal the emir's prize horses.  They are foiled by a Gifted (speaking) horse name Sweet, and as punishment, are sent into the catacombs beneath the city to kill a bonescuttle that has been preying on the weak and the unwary.  Their journey takes them through broken magical wonders left over from the time of the Pilots, who ruled the world for thousands of years before destroying themselves.  The two tribesmen are slain, but Ishad manages to return to the surfaces with the bonescuttle's head.

In the years that follow, Ishad establishes himself as a fencing teacher.  His neighbors' son Vurt becomes his star pupil, and eventually a semi-professional arena fighter.  During one of his matches he meets and falls in love with a young woman named Sehdie, whose domineering aunt Elenima once had a brief fling with Ishad.  Embittered by that (and everything else), Elenima has been helping a spy named Shau Sheu gather information about Coriandel's defenses and finances.  When Elenima discovers Vurt and Sehdie's romance, she is convinced it's a sign that history is repeating itself, and that if she sacrifices Sehdie, she can have a second chance at life herself.  She pressures Shau Sheu to hire a magician to summon a bonescuttle so that everything can play out as it did before.

In order to impress Sehdie's father, Vurt swears a blood oath that he will kill the bonescuttle, just as his teacher once did.  Afraid of losing the closest thing he has to a son, Vurt appeals to Lady Kembe for help.  After a long night of careful magic, she uncovers Shau Sheu's spying and sets out to foil it.  By the time Vurt returns to the surface, Elenima is in custody, Shau Sheu has been defeated, and Sehdie has run off with Vurt's friend Kerrem --- which it turns out is probably for the best, since Vurt's encounters underground have finally made him accept that he's much more attracted to the men he fights in the arena than he ever was to Sehdie.
