"If This, My Soul, Should Be Unprisoned"

Wurdi Youang is composed of about 100 basalt stones, including three large waist-high stones at the western end. It is at least 11,000 years old. (Pre-ice age civilization in Australia?)

The Thirteen Towers in the Peruvian coastal desert built about 400 BCE by the Casma/Sechin culture. The towers line up with the rising and setting sun on important days.

Cheomseongdae ("star-gazing tower") was built in the 7th century CE in the kingdom of Silla (modern-day Korea) during the reign of Queen Seondeok. It took five years to build; the number and placement of stones represents various historical and astronomical figures (e.g., the central window separates the body into 12 layers above and 12 layers below). Cheomseongdae was constructed when Queen Seondeok was still a princess; this was her first decree as a princess. Cheomseongdae was meant to share the knowledge of astronomy with everyone, rather than letting one person (Lady Misil) abuse the knowledge of it. By doing so, she also abdicated her divine rights. Because this was uncommon at the time and unsupported by many conservatives, at the opening of Cheomseongdae, barely any nobles showed up.

A zij is an Islamic astronomical book that tabulates parameters used for astronomical calculations of the positions of the Sun, Moon, stars, and planets. Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn al-Hasan al-Tusi (1201-74) was a Persian polymath who created very accurate tables of planetary motion, and is often credited with establishing trigonometry as a discipline in its own right (and possibly a precursor to Copernicus via uncredited work). Hulagu Khan created an observatory for Tusi at Maragha in the 13th century. The facility became inactive in the 14th century after losing patronage, and was ruined by a series of earthquakes. The contents of its library were stolen during the Mongol invasion, but the remains inspired Ulugh Beg to construct an observatory in Samarkand in 1428.

Uraniborg was built between 1576 and 1580 on the island of Hven by Tycho Brahe, then expanded to Stjerneborg after it turned out that tower-mounted instruments swayed too much in the wind. Brahe abandoned the site in 1597 after he fell out of favor with the Danish king Christian IV; it was destroyed in 1601. It was the first custom-built observatory in modern Europe.

A "Jantar Mantar" is a giant sundial with a triangular gnomon whose hypotenuse is parallel to the Earth's axis. On either side of the gnomon is a quadrant of a circle parallel to the plane of the equator. The instrument can measure the time of day to an accuracy of half a second. "Yantra mantar" means "calculation instrument". There were five, but the one in Mathura was torn down just before the Revolt of 1875 (possibly just neglect and scavenging).

The Arecibo Radio Observatory was completed in 1963; it was 305m in diameter and made out of 38,778 perforated aluminum panels. It collapsed on Dec 1, 2020 after years of dwindling funding.

If this, my soul, should be
Unprisoned from its earthly bond,
Time could not count its markless flight
Beyond that star, beyond!
- Bliss Carman
