You know you're in a simulation because you never have to go to the bathroom:
nobody wanted to code that bit.

> 1.  Never use a metaphor, similar or other figure of speech which you
>     are used to seeing in print.
> 2.  Never use a long word when a short one will do.
> 3.  If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out.
> 4.  Never use the passive where you can use the active.
> 5.  Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word or a jargon word if
>     you can think of an everyday English equivalent.
> 6.  Break any of these rules sooner than say anything barbarous.
> 
> (from Orwell's Politics and the English Language, 1947)

Ducklings tumbling down an Arctic cliff: a few are injured, but that's
OK, because it distracts the foxes from the ones that aren't.

New story: a family "whaling" for bio-rich asteroids in the cold dark
of space. The colony ship arrived just a few years after an asteroid hit
the planet they were supposed to settle; the ship itself is now a
crowded bazaar, while clans sail the darkness in makeshift spaceships.
No biotech: that's what destroyed the home world. The only pets in
space are the turtles; your status in the city is shown by the pet you
keep.

A dozen laptop drives sound like an old kettle just starting to bubble.

"I think," Tehanu said in her soft, strange voice, "That when I die,
I can breathe back the breath that made me live. I can give back to the
world all that I didn't do. All that I might have been and couldn't
be. All the choices I didn't make. All the things I lost and spent and
wasted. I can give them back to the world. To the lives that haven't
been lived yet. That will be my gift back to the world that gave me the
life I did live, the life I loved, the breath I breathed." (Ursula
LeGuin, "The Other Wind")

Mister Chance and Doctor Certainty.

Story starts with a man daydreaming about his childhood friend hopping
up onto the railing of a bridge, turning to brag, slipping, and falling.
It never actually happened, but it haunts him nevertheless.

Mata-mata turtle has red "worms" around mouth.

Porcupines can kill tigers.

Elephants put dead crocodiles in trees (they really do; no-one knows
why).

...The reason we like the problem of racism is that solving it just
requires us to give up our prejudices, whereas solving the problem of
economic inequality might require something more---it might require us
to give up our money. When student and faculty activists struggle for
cultural diversity, they are in large part battling over what skin color
the rich kids should have. As long as we think that our best
universities are fair if they are appropriately diverse, we don't have
to worry that most people can't go to them. (NYT, April 2004)

Lick the tip of a finger, then dab at a hair to pick it up.

Fortune telling using dice: put twelve in a box, shake it, and see what
pattern the irregular images on the dice faces forms.

A kindergarten pupil told his teacher he'd found a cat, but it was
dead. "How do you know that the cat was dead?" she asked her pupil.
"Because I pissed in its ear and it didn't move," answered the child
innocently. "You did WHAT?!?" the teacher exclaimed in surprise. "You
know," explained the boy, "I leaned over and went 'Pssst!' and it
didn't move."

A small boy is sent to bed by his father. Five minutes
later....."Da-ad...." "What?" "I'm thirsty. Can you bring drink
of water?" "No, You had your chance. Lights out." Five minutes later:
"Da-aaaad....." "WHAT?" "I'm THIRSTY. Can I have a drink of
water??" "I told you NO! If you ask again, I'll have to spank you!!"
Five minutes later......"Daaaa-aaaad....." "WHAT!" "When you
come in to spank me, can you bring a drink of water?"

One summer evening during a violent thunderstorm a mother was tucking
her son into bed. She was about to turn off the light when he asked with
a tremor in his voice, "Mommy, will you sleep with me tonight?" The
mother smiled and gave him a reassuring hug. "I can't dear," she
said. "I have to sleep in Daddy's room." A long silence was broken at
last by his shaky little voice: "The big sissy."

How wonderful a good map is, in which one views the world as from
another world thanks to the art of drawing. (Samuel van Hoogstraten, in
Svetlana Alpers' "The Art of Drawing")

Spice temples

Religious proscription on eating food prepared by strangers

Death is the fifth season (the other four are the circle of life).

Golden carrion ants (like the vultures that devour dead Parsis).
- They ignore the flesh of the living
- Horror scene where narrator realizes they have started to feast on him.

Tattooing the name of your enemy on the soles of your feet.

"Talk is cheap because supply exceeds demand."

Tuyuca requires verb-endings on statements to show how the speaker knows something.
- "Diga ape-wi" means that "the boy played soccer (I know because I saw him)",
  while "diga ape-hiyi" means "the boy played soccer (I assume)".
- English can provide such information, but for Tuyuca that is an obligatory ending on the verb.
- Evidential languages force speakers to think hard about how they learned what they say they know.

In the end, he was accused only of theft, arson, rape, and murder, the more serious charges having been stayed.

Upon the dedication of St. Paul's Cathedral, Queen Anne described it as "awful, pompous, and artificial"
which in those days meant "awe-inspiring, imposing, and artistically done."

giant interstellar alien thinks the humans on a generation ship are parasites

father asks daughter "why didn't we ever make a robot?" and she says "because you were always too busy"

robot picks up message from aliens after humans have gone extinct, finds out the sender is in the same situation

reverse Pinocchio: a robot who decides to make a daughter
- robots who make people are called boymakers because it's a crime to make a girl (they can make more people)
- a story about gender identity

the reveal is that _we're_ the "elder gods"
- character says "we missed the gods so much we made new ones"

the Yith are trapped in an elaborate Matrix-style simulation

Implants at birth (or even before) so that the brain can use them
(same is true of magic swords? have to grow up with it so it's an extension of yourself?)

like "Lady Astronaut" but for tech: women always stayed in control

Azolla event

story about contraband videos of wildlife

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Long_Jump was a plan to assassinate
Churchill, Stalin, and Roosevelt simultaneously

Time travel but you have to go so far forward or back that you can't change anything

Buddhist reincarnated as computer program

Dungeons as waste dumps for magic

The last streetcar

Dip snails in paint to make art: http://boingboing.net/2015/05/05/make-snail-art-by-dipping-them.html

Butterflies drink turtle tears to get salt in the desert

Wasps that make nests out of flower petals

Elephant with [tentacles instead of a tusk](http://io9.com/there-is-a-long-tradition-of-elephants-and-horror-i-ap-932586752).

Not "cui bono?" but "quis statuat?" (who decides?)

A story:

> One day an old dog gets lost on the plains discovers that he's lost.
> Wandering about, he notices a leopard heading rapidly in his direction
> with the intention of having lunch.
>
> The old dog thinks, "Oh, oh! I'm in deep doo-doo now!" Noticing
> some bones on the ground close by, he immediately settles down to chew
> on the bones with his back to the approaching cat. Just as the leopard
> is about to leap the old dog exclaims loudly, "Boy, that was one
> delicious leopard! I wonder if there are any more around here?"
>
> Hearing this, the young leopard halts his attack in mid-strike, a look
> of terror comes over him and he slinks away into the trees.
>
> "Whew!" says the leopard, "That was close! That old dog nearly had
> me!"
>
> Meanwhile, a monkey who had been watching the whole scene from a
> nearby tree, figures he can put this knowledge to good use and trade
> it for protection from the leopard.
>
> So off he goes, but the old dog sees him heading after the leopard
> with great speed, and figures that something must be up. The monkey
> soon catches up with the leopard, spills the beans and strikes a deal
> for himself with the leopard.
>
> The young leopard is furious at being made a fool of and says, "Here,
> monkey, hop on my back and see what's going to happen to that
> conniving canine!"
>
> Now, the old dog sees the leopard coming with the monkey on his back
> and thinks, "What am I going to do now?", but instead of running,
> the dog sits down with his back to his attackers, pretending he
> hasn't seen them yet, and just when they get close enough to hear,
> the old dog says: "Where's that damn monkey? I sent him off an hour
> ago to bring me another leopard!"

He spent the morning carefully cleaning the death off the floor and furniture.

From Alberto Manguel's The Library at Night:
-   Quoting Blake: "There is a Moment in each Day that Satan cannot
    find // Nor can his Watch Fiends find it, but the industrious find
    // This Moment & it multiply, & when it once is found // It
    renovates every Moment of the Day if rightly placed."
-   In one other practical sense, words create light. The Mesopotamian
    who wished to continue his reading when night had fallen, the Roman
    who itnended to pursue his documents after dinner, the monk in his
    cell and the scholar in his study after evening prayers, the
    courtier retiring to his bedchamber and the lady to her boudoir, the
    child hiding beneath the blankets to read after curfew---all set
    up the light necessary to illuminate their task.
-   In her novel The Blue Flower, Penelope Fitzgerald says, "If a story
    begins with finding, it must end with searching."

The ancients thought that the only "proper" fractions were ones that
had 1 as a numerator; fractions like 2/3 are still called "vulgar
fractions". They would write 2/3 as 1/2 + 1/6.

Practicing her ceremonial scowl.

> As every man goes through life he fills in a number of forms for the
> record, each containing a number of questions... There are thus
> hundreds of little threads radiating from every man, millions of threads
> in all. If these threads were suddenly to become visible, the whole sky
> would look like a spider's web, and if they materialized as rubber
> bands, buses; trams and even people would all lose the ability to move,
> and the wind would be unable to carry torn-up newspapers or autumn
> leaves along the streets of the city. They are not visible, they are not
> material, but every man is constantly aware of their existence... Each
> man, permanently aware of his own invisible threads, naturally develops
> a respect for the people who manipulate the threads.
>
> - Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Cancer Ward, 1968

Marching in snow makes your back ache.

"Knowledge is power; power corrupts; so anyone who has studied as hard as I have is bound to be evil."

Being poor is:
- hoping the toothache goes away.
- knowing your kid goes to friends' houses but never has friends over to yours.
- living right next to the outhouses.
- wondering if your well-off sibling is lying when he says he doesn't mind when you ask for help.
- knowing you can't leave money on the table when your friends are around.
- stealing meat from the store,
  frying it up before your mom gets home and then telling her she doesn't have make dinner tonight
  because you're not hungry anyway.
- not enough space for everyone who lives with you.
- relying on people who don't give a damn about you.
- finding the letter your mom wrote to your dad, begging him for the child support.
- taking a broken lamp from a stranger's trash.
- making lunch for your kid when a cockroach skitters over the bread,
  and you looking over to see if your kid saw.
- people eyeing you when you walk around in the market.
- not taking the job because you can't find someone you trust to watch your kids.
- the police busting into the room right next to yours.
- not talking to that girl because she'll probably just laugh at your clothes.
- hoping someone will invite you for dinner on holidays.
- people thinking they know something about you by the way you talk.
- crying when you drop the porridge on the floor.
- knowing you work as hard as anyone, anywhere.
- people surprised to discover you're not actually stupid.
- people surprised to discover you're not actually lazy.
- never buying anything someone else hasn't bought first.
- having to live with choices you didn't know you made when you were fourteen.
- getting tired of people wanting you to be grateful.
- knowing you're being judged.
- people who have never been poor wondering why you choose to be so.

A freelance bargaineer.

Baked cat puke is really hard to get off.

The witch waved her magic spoon.

Put fig juice in milk to curdle it when making cheese.

As he listed the points he was supposed to be remember, he took the rings off his fingers one by one.

Refer to children as "colts" instead of "kids".

A professional cheese namer.

One character has never encountered sausages before; the other starts to
explain what they are ("Yes, it's meat... No, it's not some kind of
slug..."), and then a third guesses (wrongly) and starts sniggering.

"Symposium" literally means "drinking together".

Carving seals (for stamping wax) is a tightly-regulated profession.

He lay under the covers and waited for his soul to soak back into his body
(or for his body to reabsorb his soul).

Story opening: As he fell, he cried out, "They pushed me!" And as he
hit the ground, he thought, "I hope this works."

Statuettes of evil spirits being beaten put near doorways to frighten
bad luck away.
