2017-02-10 (Chapters 1-3)

A few small things. Again, it's not critical that you address any of
these yet, because the rest of the story might make the changes
moot. I liked that you emphasized the place of the Gifted animals a
little more. Maybe a little too much (the bear shouting as it rushed
them was that point for me). You switched POVs again mid-scene with
Grappa Gas and Indy in the kitchen, pg 18. I lost track of which
soldier was which when they were riding on the cloud. Maybe you can
distinguish them by some physical trait, even if Noxy doesn't know
their rank? On page 16, the second "everything happened at once"
doesn't jive in my mind's eye. To me, moving a sick man to a makeshift
stretcher is slow and controlled, not frenetic.

The Tiger is still suitably mysterious. I like him. I really want to
know more about cloud herding. The whole rebel/king thing isn't really
catching me yet, I guess because it seems so far off, even with the
soldiers in the village. Even Yestevan isn't occupying my thoughts
because I don't know what he did to deserve being shunned and how I
should feel about it. Right now my thinking is that he sounds like a
bit of an ass, so I'm okay if they leave him outside the village to be
eaten by trolls or whatever.

I'm not sure what I predict to happen next. The obvious foreshadow is
that the kings soldiers come riding through. Hm... and I bet they kill
basically everyone, and then Noxy and the tiger boy and the tiger and
Yestevan have to go to the rebel camp to join up with the rebels and
fight the king. Not sure if her friends survive yet.

----

"Descending the stairs was even harder on her knees than climbing
them." - I don't think kids think about their knees very much.

I'm not sure where Noxy is sitting when she's taking the
thimbleberries apart. The fight in the main square goes on for at
least half an hour, says the text. Where is Noxy standing that she can
see and hear all of it? Wouldn't her mother come by and see she wasn't
working? I would, if I'd set my kid to a punishment task.

----

*   I lost track of where Noxy was during the lightning strikes. I read
    it a few times and I wasn't sure where she'd gone in relation to
    the house, or what building was struck, or where Aft had come
    from.

*   Would Aft really give a prisoner a weapon? And even if he would,
    wouldn't the onlookers protest?  From the text, I thought both
    escaping soldiers were captured immediately. It wasn't til later
    that I realized there was another one loose.

The ending is awesome. I'm glad I saved up the next part so I don't
have to wait.

----

I have to say I really like how much effort you put into figuring out
how they manage to live up there, mostly isolated from other
people. Things like putting cedar bark down in trenches, or saving the
nails from the burned building. I also like how you're working the
magic in.

The 180 by the soldiers comes somewhat out of the blue. I missed if
there was any foreshadowing earlier that they might not be as upright
as they seem. Grappa Gas warning everyone about it wasn't enough to
trigger that alarm for me.

A few typos and things:

*   "more like Sergeant Dorbu wouldn’t take ’no for an answer" - rogue
    quote?
*   The math part came out of the blue. I don't think you need to
    explain about being able to do addition and subtraction. I think
    it's a pretty important skill for people who herd flocks.
*   "all like the stories she had read and re-read about people having
    adventures" - are there books in the village? I hadn't seen
    them. To me, it seems more likely that they told stories to each
    other, particularly in winter and when the adults were away.
